            Beginner Phreaking
            ------------------

   First you need the number of a 
local PBX exchange. A PBX is a long 
distance company such as MCI, Sprint, 
Metro, All-net, Skyline, etc. Each of 
these companies has phone numbers 
local to you for their customers to 
dial out their long-distance calls. 
One such number is 583-9700. This is 
MCI local to Baltimore. However there 
is not just one phone line on this 
exchange. When you call the above 
number, your call gets bumped to the 
next open line. For this number, I 
believe there are about 25 lines so 
the phone numbers go from 
583-9700 to 583-9725. It is rumored 
that the numbers ending in 0 are 
monitored and are therefor more 
dangerous however I don't believe 
that, your call gets bumped so 
quickly that they wouldn't notice a 
thing, it might be more dangerous to 
dial the alternate numbers since they 
may get suspicious as to why someone 
would do that, so call the number 
ending in 0 or 00. 
   To get some exchanges local to 
your area, check the Elite board on 
this BBS or others for info. Some 
numbers start with 950. This exchange 
is a free call from any pay phone 
anywhere you are, so that people with 
calling cards may make calls without 
having any change. I have heard 
rumors that these numbers are more 
likely to have tracing on them than 
the normal exchanges (ie. non-950).
   Ok, when someone wants to make a 
call using a PBX they call the 
exchange and shortly after a ring 
there will be a low steady tone, then 
the person dials their code (anywhere 
from 5-9 digits depending on the 
company) then they dial the area code 
they want to call and then the number 
(without the 1-). So it goes like 
this 57687(code)+301(area)+9979973(#)
. All together it would be 
576873019979973. You need a touch 
tone phone to do this. If you have 
rotary service, use a pulse phone to 
dial the exchange and then a touch 
tone to make the tones. (A switchable 
tone/pulse phone is useful if you 
have rotary service). When you get 
the numbers for the exchange make 
sure you get the number of digits of 
the code, you can figure it out if 
you have to. MCI is 5 digits and the 
code is short enough to do by hand, 
any codes longer than that you will 
have to scan for codes using a 
computer.
   Now how to get the codes: By hand:
Take out a piece of paper, a pencil, 
a touchtone phone, and a comfortable 
chair. Pick a 5 digit code (assuming 
MCI) ending in 00, such as 89800.
Now you call the exchange, wait for 
tone and dial code+area+number, you 
will then immediately get a 
recording, 'The access code you have 
dialed is invalid...'. So you put a 
check down marking that 89800 is not 
a good code, then you call back and 
try 89801 and so on. If you get a 
good code your call will go through. 
For the area code and number you 
choose, you can choose anything you 
want, you will know when the call 
goes through. If it does, you have a 
good code! Sometimes you will get a 
code every 10 tries sometimes it will 
take a couple hundred!
   You may have noticed this is a 
little tedious so you get yourself a 
touch tone modem and a scanning 
program (ask around or look in the 
download files). The pogram will ask 
you for a couple numbers and then it 
will proceed to keep calling back 
with different codes. When the PRG 
asks for the number to call put in 
the number of a BBS that you know is 
never busy or better yet the number 
of a mainframe such as 338-8600, cuz 
when the computer calls it waits for 
the carrier if the call goes through 
and that's how it knows it's a good 
code. If the BBS is busy then you 
will miss the code. You can set it 
and leave it on all night and when 
you wake up you will have a few dozen 
codes! 
   DANGERS:::The best way for them to 
catch you is to look at the incoming 
calls and see sequential codes being 
dialed and if they are advanced 
enough (or are good friends with AT+T 
which only Sprint is) they may trace 
you. The best way to beat that is get 
a random scanner or write one, it's 
not hard at all. 
   When you get a code, do not use it 
for more than a month because 
eventually the person whose code it 
belongs to will get their bill, 
scream at MCI (or whoever) and MCI 
will either make them pay for the 
calls (and lose a customer) or will 
give the person another code. They 
will either kill the old code or try 
to trace if someone uses the old 
code. So throw away the code after a 
month. Sometimes you may stumble on a 
code they may be tracing and you 
wouldn't know it but there is a way 
to check...Use the code to dial 
301-997-9973, you will then hear a 
whoop tone. If the tone is a steady 
tone you are being traced. This is 
only a rumor and I don't believe that 
it can actually work because a trace 
now a days takes milliseconds. But I 
do use it just in case. 
   The biggest danger: MCI doesn't 
know who made the call but on the 
person's phone bill it will have a 
list of the numbers you called, so 
your friend may get a call from MCI 
asking questions. Either make sure 
your friend can handle the pressure 
and not rat on you or just call BBS's 
cuz when they call they will just get 
a carrier and forget about it.
   Ok, well there are you, good luck 
and FOLLOW MY PRECAUTIONS and DON'T 
GET BUSTED!! You will only get caught 
if you do something stupid like use 
a code too long or giving them to 
your friends, the way almost everyone 
gets caught is by someone telling on 
them so don't tell anyone what you 
are doing and don't ever mention this 
file!!

            Diverters
            ---------

214-824-8262     914-273-8237
312-678-8841     718-591-5500
203-563-0324     202-244-1000
602-987-2767     617-258-8270
914-353-0121     512-250-0061
201-233-6688     803-271-8122
313-294-9520     701-293-7041
617-879-7544     901-202-3928
607-722-4256     404-448-9533
404-477-0700     201-752-6000
301-879-7087     301-879-9913
617-655-8000     617-655-8040
312-678-9923     312-678-9952
617-655-0700     215-547-4747
617-383-9100     800-845-8824
800-327-3535     800-638-2000
800-634-0001     800-368-5680
800-424-4883     800-325-9990
800-637-0001     800-858-9000


	      Loops
              -----

301-263-9926/9     619-748-0002/3
505-233-9900/2     505-865-9900/2
415-947-0044/5     313-528-9996/7
313-282-2891(-5)   512-250-0061(-3)
913-371-9988/9     416-868-1186/7
303-321-0000/10    402-779-0007/8
616-997-9996/?     714-525-1118/9
213-830-1118/9     714-591-1118/9
714-597-1118/9     714-598-1118/9
714-794-1118/9     714-535-1118/9
202-342-9947/8     313-678-9996/7
201-467-9929/30    201-761-9929/30
201-762-9929/30    201-764-9929/30
212-228-9979/?     213-365-1119/?
313-751-9996/7     313-477-9996/7
313-273-9996/7     414-781-0010/?
713-442-1799/?     805-544-0044/?
607-775-9917/?     607-775-9945/?
313-263-9996/7     313-247-9996/7
313-978-9996/7     313-977-9996/7

Canadian Loops:
---------------
416-xxx-118617 
xxx=868,245,292,592,599

