

*************************************************************** 
*                                                             * 
*                                                             * 
*                           Phreaks                           * 
*                                                             * 
*                 Long Distance Phone Thieves                 * 
*                                                             * 
*                             OR                              * 
*                                                             * 
*                  The Phreaker's Handbook                    * 
*                                                             * 
*************************************************************** 
                              MCI 
 
MCI is the Queen Mother of the long distance companys. There are 
only a handful of companys that are "networked". This means 
they've built their system to a point where travelers (or phreaks
can call into a local phone number and be in the "network" even 
if they're three thousand miles from home. The exception is when 
you're in an area that isn't serviced. Most LD services utilize 
800 numbers so that you can connect even if you're out in the 
boonies. 
 
Here we have two different code formats, one for the so called 
"executive" user, primarily business , the other for the average 
person. Executive class entails using the 950-1022 dialup. To 
make a call you need to enter no less than thirty two digits. You
dial zero plus the area code and phone number that you want, then
the area code and phone number with a four digit "security code" 
at the end. It'll look like this, 9501022 (the dialup) 
02125551212 (zero plus the area code and phone number ) then 
7045551212xxxx (your area code,phone number and security code). 
 
Many years ago I saw a piece of graffiti on the bathroom wall of 
the Cotton Bowl. It went like this, "I've shit in England - I've 
shit in France - But before I shit here again - I'll shit in my 
pants." I feel the same way about this format. As a businessman, 
I wouldn't waste my time trying to dial all this garbage. A real 
pain in the ass. Hackers, don't find the format that tough. With 
the exception of the user's telephone number and code the rest 
are known quantities. You're left with fourteen numbers to hack 
out. This can be reduced even further. MCI's 950 codes are good 
anywhere in the country. Experienced phreaks pick an area that is
known to have an extremely high population density. New York City
is a case in points, area code 212. The number of digits has just
been reduced to eleven. The phreak will choose a prefix that is 
occupied predominantly by business and cut the number down to 
eight digits, which is one less than Sprint's code. I've seen 
425,943,344,964,269,422,820,227,635,747,486,668,686,233,248,532, 
732,306,938,255,925,678,and 564 posted on hacker boards. It seems
that Wall Street is a juicy target. The interesting thing about 
hacking MCI's 950 numbers is that the phreak also gets the number
‹j‹åof the person who's going to be getting the bill. It's not 
unusual for the hacker to call the victim on some pretense just 
to find out who it is. If it's a large company who might not 
notice a few additional phone calls, he'll use the code sparingly
so as not to attract attention. The end result will be years of 
free long distance. 
 
MCI's second format is pretty standard. A local dialup and a five
digit code followed by the area code and number you wish to speak
with. They've recently instituted a new "security measure". One 
phreak hacked out eight codes in about an hour. He let them sit a
day before he got around to using one of them, some phreaks let 
them sit as long as a month. In that twenty four hour period all 
but one of them went bad. It isn't unusual to see codes go bad. A
few of them fall by the wayside due to natural attrition, people 
not paying their bills or cancelling service. To see seven fall 
with one blow is mathematically improbable. It means  they've 
been reprogramming the computers to scan the dialups and check 
for activity. If a node has an activity average of fifty calls 
an hour and the hacker pumps the actual amount over that 
average, it'll trigger a feature in the programming that'll 
generate an activity report for a system operator to read. 
Furthermore, the computer will list all the phone numbers called 
and the codes that connected them to the system. If the phone 
numbers are identical it can safely be assumed they're being 
telephucked. The report will also show a time lag of about 
fifteen seconds between calls. Isn't technology wonderful? 
 
The hacker's solution to their solution is obvious. Don't keep 
dialing the same phone number over and over. The first generation
of hacker programs did (and still do) use a one number 
destination. Consequently, they've  set a pattern that, after 
four or five years, the phone companies have finally noticed. It 
takes about twenty minutes of reprogramming to beat it. Hacks 
have now started using large files dialups similar to the one in 
the appendix. It's not too difficult to blitz the call counter 
feature either. MCI doesn't publish their dialup numbers except 
to their customers and then they only give them one at a time. 
Their ratio seems to be figured at around one dialup for two 
hundred thousand of population. To find other dialups all one 
needs to do is scan the prefix surrounding a known node. Hacks 
are now rewriting their software to spread their hacks out over a
wider area. Fifty to one hundred hacks on one node and then they 
move to another. The five digit code hacked on a local dialup is 
good only on that node. A New York code won't be good in 
Cleveland. It took MCI several years and a ton of money in losses
and programming time to come up with this little security wonder.
It'll take a fifteen year old phreak twenty minutes of 
reprogramming at a cost of zero bucks to bust it. Kinda makes you
wonder doesn't it? 
 
What of the one code that was still good? The hacker didn't touch
it. He realized the system had detected him. It wouldn't be hard 
recognize his pattern of calling. He knew the good code might be ‹j‹å"trapped". Any activity on it would have been traced (illegally).
If he stayed on the code long enough for the security department 
to process the necessary paperwork he would undoubtedly be 
busted. He decided that it was wiser to protect himself and those
that he called by not using it. He noted the number just in case 
he should hack it out again at a later date. 
 
Some psychologists say that names can affect the development of a
child. I knew two kids when I was in school who's names are 
etched in my memory forever, Jock Strap and Harry Balls. Their 
parents should have been shot. The president of MCI is Orville 
Wright. Orville has his work cut out for him. 
                           GTE SPRINT 
 
 
Sprint is owned by General Telephone. If you've ever lived in a 
GTE area you can attest to the absolute crapola you've received 
as service. Sprint has advertised good connections and rightly 
so. Their international access is equal to AT&T. Like MCI and all
the other LD services, they don't go everywhere. They've 
concentrated building their network in the metropolitan areas 
where the money is so you country bumpkins are going to have to 
wait a little longer. 
 
I recently spoke with Sprint's security department. They have a 
service oriented philosophy. They don't want  any restrictions on
data line users. A study indicated a respectable percentage of 
Sprint customers were computer operators. Sprint maintains a 
considerable number of dialup ports. I estimate the ratio is one 
port for each forty thousand of population.  As of this writing, 
Sprint has not completed it's national 950-0777 setup. 
Consequently, she still has a large number of local dialups in 
the system. Scanning to either side of a local non 950 dialup 
will yield a wealth of unpublished nodes. 
 
Sprint's code format runs  9 digits in length  and also uses 
prefix qualifiers . In this case a three digit coding  identifies
the physical area of the country  the code has been assigned to. 
The next 4 digits are presumably it's record place within their 
computer system. Therefore, xxxXXXXxx would translate to a three 
digit prefix, followed by a four digit record number, with the 
remaining two digits being what used to be a  travel code. 
Hackers report success rates of one per 300 hacks using the 
random number approach, a bit on the shabby side. Success ratios 
on MCI are around seven percent, or seven per hundred 
hacks,actually pretty good. On Metro three to four percent is 
about right. Essentially, Sprint is spreading their valid 
accounts out over a wider area, keeping the density low, thus 
making them harder to find. The hacker can increase his return 
ratios by using the prefix and suffix technique. His first time 
on the system he'll use a random hack, searching for a nine digit
code. Then use the first three digits of the code as a prefix, 
and the last to digits as a suffix. All he needs then to hack is 
the four digits in between. The return rate is currently one per ‹j‹åtwo hundred hacks using this approach, a 33% increase in 
efficiency. 
 
Sprint has achieved a reputation for vigorously prosecuting 
phreaks. Yet, they are as limited as all the other companies. 
They rely mainly on fear. Occasionally, they'll snare some kid 
who overstayed his welcome. They  make a big deal giving the 
impression  they're  busting thousands a day. This just isn't so.
Phreaks only get caught when they get stupid or lazy. You can't 
blame Sprint for capitalizing on some phreak's lack of brains. 
Conversely, you can't blame the phreak for cashing in on Sprint's
lack of smarts. 
 
As an update, Sprints 950 dialups require 9 digits. Local nodes 
used to come in at 7 and 8 digits. As the local dialups disappear
the 9 will become the norm. Sprint still has no specialized 
security systems. The rumors of profound phreak snaring abilities
are basically untrue. 
 
They win a few and lose a few, although it appears they lose more
than they win. 
 
                        Allnet Communications 
 
Allnet is a run of the mill telecom company. They utilize the 
standard 6 digit format and can be found at 950-1044. They appear
to have developed or purchased software for analyzing their data 
much the same way Mci has. Furthermore, they seem to have 
established a customer profile with which to compare current 
hacking activities against the record of past calling habits. 
A hacked code will remain valid for three days. It seems to take 
that long to run the programming. 
 
Additionally, a code that connects for only a few seconds will be
invalidated within 24 hours. The obvious solution is stay 
connected for several minutes. It works. On the user profile 
strategy, there is no means of defeating it except to rape the 
hell out of the code from the minute one lays hands on it. Those 
that adhere to the I C's Rules of Phreaking wouldn't care since 
they don't stay on a code more than three days any way. 
Itt is Internation Telephone and Telegraph and operates out of 
Seacacus New Jersy. They've been the the telcomunications 
business for many years and have specialized in telix type 
services. 
 
Itt's connections aren't particularly terrific for data 
transmissions. Phreaks have complained of excessive line loss 
over relatively short distances. The company's strong point is 
and will continue to be their telix activities. 
 
The code format for this service is different. In an obvious 
attempt to deter phreaking, they've departed from the usual node,
‹j‹åcode, number arrangement. Instead they utilize a reverse 
arrangement, node, area code and number, then the code. From a 
practical point of view there is little difference. From an 
operational viewpoint the phreak must chain together his dialing 
sting instead of using just one. I others words, instead of 
punching one macro to output his call, two are required. 
The coding uses a prefix and suffix as area qualifiers. The first
two digits of the code refer to the area of the country the code 
has been assigned. Consequently, most phreaks prefer to use the 
prefix in their hack attempts. The object is, of course, to 
improve effieciency. 
 
Itt has no special security considerations as far as traces and 
traps go. They have instead emphasized getting the phreak 
disconnected as quickly as possible. Most Itt's will go bad in 
three days (See Chapter on Updates). Hense it is impossible for a
phreak to be on the system long enough to require concern about 
traps and traces. 
 
Itt is expanding it's overseas network and is offering services 
to Singapore as well as the regular European countries. 
 
 
                        ITT LOCAL DIALUPS 
 
 
201-463-0900    305-545-8895    513-228-6506    717-234-0718 
201-589-6343    305-764-4522    513-651-1823    717-299-4796 
202-565-4110    312-364-6020    515-284-5040    717-347-9135 
203-324-1172    312-922-1013    518-462-2068    717-825-2761 
203-333-2722    313-662-2041    602-257-8200    803-233-1351 
203-527-7389    313-964-2843    608-258-8900    803-256-3060 
203-787-0170    314-656-0800    609-338-0340    803-573-7639 
203-794-1085    315-471-2900    609-989-1631    803-577-6728 
203-866-8411    316-267-1088    612-375-0690    804-355-1433 
209-445-9300    317-637-5223    614-224-0024    804-380-9038 
212-248-0151    401-273-8263    615-327-2511    804-627-3596 
214-651-0609    404-525-0714    615-521-7600    805-395-0123 
215-376-4864    405-525-7731    615-697-7000    813-223-5380 
215-433-2166    408-280-1301    616-458-2472    817-338-4749 
215-563-3256    412-261-4930    617-357-5562    904-358-8522 
216-375-9040    414-933-5680    702-323-7191    913-371-1300 
216-621-0490    415-495-2816    704-375-4311    916-448-6606 
219-237-1700    415-858-2750    713-862-5067    918-585-5001 
302-654-2809    502-589-9360    714-973-8032    919-378-9489 
303-861-4411    504-566-8300    716-325-1180    919-725-3532 
305-425-7791    512-474-4397    716-845-5150    919-832-9438 
 
‹`‹ 
                Listing of Cities Serviced by ITT 
 
 
 
 Allentown           Anaheim             Annapolis 
 Athens              Atlanta             Baltimore 
 Boston              Brooklyn            Cambridge 
 Camden              Charlotte           Chicago 
 Compton             Dallas              El Monte 
 Elk Grove           Fort Worth          Fort Lauderdale 
 Gainesville         Galveston           Garden City 
 Gardena             Gary                Glendale 
 Greensboro          Greensville         Hackensack 
 Houston             Inglewood           Jacksonville 
 Joliet              Kankakee            La Plata 
 Long Beach          Los Angeles         Lynchburg 
 Miami               Morristown          New Brunswick 
 New York            Newark              Newport News 
 Norfolk             Norristown          Northbrook 
 Oak Brook           Oakland             Orlando 
 Palo Alto           Philadelphia        Reading 
 Richmond            Rochester           Rome 
 Rosenberg           Sacramento          San Jose 
 Santa Monica        Santa Ana           Scranton 
 Sherman Oaks        Spartanburg         St. Petersburg 
 Tampa               Thousand Oaks       Trenton 
 Van Nuys            Washington          West Palm Beach 
 White Plains        Wilkes-Barre        Wilmington 
 Winston-Salem 
 
                    Western Union Metrophone 
 
Metro was everyone's whore. Metro never said no. Any too bit 
phreak could bang a metro code. The system was of interest to 
business primarily due to there method of billing breakdowns. 
Metro has been raped to the tune of tens of millions in phreak 
related losses. 
 
Metro is currently, for phreaking purposes, offline. It's unknown
whether she has changed her code format or has simply closed 
shop. Her previous code format was a standard 6 digit affair. The
equipment used was old and had very poor line quality. This was 
apparent in 1200 baud data communications but would not 
necessarily have been noticed on voice transmissions. The listing
for her networked dialups is included below. 
 
201-427-1100 
201-487-3155 
201-531-7900 
201-643-2227 
201-825-8852 
201-828-8660 
202-737-2051 ‹j‹å
203-222-1148 
203-323-1468 
203-522-0003 
203-748-0770 
206-382-0910 
212-732-7430 
212-950-0220 
213-202-6117 
213-404-4100 
213-618-0231 
213-624-8884 
213-629-1026 
214-595-4282 
214-742-4500 
215-351-0100 
215-770-8940 
216-374-1001 
216-861-5163 
219-237-4805 
219-420-0011 
219-882-8901 
301-659-7700 
302-429-9439 
303-623-5356 
305-326-3300 
305-462-3530 
312-356-4480 
312-396-2550 
312-450-5875 
312-480-8901 
312-496-2431 
312-578-3900 
312-679-8120 
312-844-6981 
312-853-4700 
312-888-5580 
312-891-8083 
312-981-8870 
312-986-0566 
313-963-4847 
313-996-8900 
314-342-1130 
315-474-3911 
317-635-6284 
401-272-0356 
402-422-1120 
404-223-1000 
405-232-9011 
408-947-7606 
409-833-9331 
412-261-5720 
414-277-1805 
414-633-3636 ‹j‹å415-499-8086 

415-579-6001 
415-676-1062 
415-724-3170 
415-794-4800 
415-833-9200 
415-836-6900 
415-852-0900 
415-956-0162 
419-243-1046 
502-561-0900 
504-566-8500 
512-224-9600 
512-474-6057 
513-228-1576 
513-241-1747 
516-933-9700 
516-950-0220 
518-436-6200 
602-254-2930 
602-323-0502 
606-231-8961 
608-251-9596 
609-338-0100 
609-641-0004 
609-989-1900 
612-370-9000 
614-224-0577 
616-242-9580 
617-950-1020 
618-235-8870 
619-233-0327 
702-329-1025 
707-584-4931 
713-224-9417 
714-527-7055 
714-591-9351 
714-594-9311 
714-877-6641 
714-972-9515 
716-852-9200 
716-950-1020 
717-238-4731 
717-348-4300 
717-846-6304 
718-950-0220 
804-225-1920 
804-623-9004 
805-968-0700 
806-379-8271 
806-762-0004 
815-966-2401 
816-471-1999 ‹j‹å817-322-1422 

817-338-1639 
817-565-9202 
817-757-2002 
818-350-1028 
818-954-8699 
818-992-8282 
913-621-3186 
914-684-0268 
915-532-0025 
915-561-5481 
915-658-2943 
915-676-0078 
916-443-6921 
918-587-6770 
                   Thrifty Telephone Exchange 
 
 
TTE is an example of a mom and pop telephone company. It services
a very small area and utilizes 800 as its sole source of out of 
the area access for its customers. The 800's are also more 
expensive for the customer. 
 
TTE offers two dialups in the 818 area, 902-0950 and 908-0951. 
These are located in Van Nuys, California, a part of the City of 
Los Angeles. She utilizes the standard 6 digit format. 
 
TTE is a good example of a company hackers just won't mess with. 
Not because of any great security measure or because of some 
ultra sophisticated phreak catching ability, but simply for the 
reason they don't have enough customers (valid codes) to make the
effort worthwhile. TTE has a rough road to hoe. It seems too 
small to be of interest for a larger company to gobble up and is 
unable to compete on the grander scales of Mci or Sprint. She's 
bound to belly up sooner or later. This situation is not unique 
in the industry. 
 
 
                      Access Communications 
 
 
Access is a company in the genre of TTE with the major exception 
it appears to have the benefit of more capitalization. There 
operate out of the 801 area and offer a local dialup at 801-359- 
3900 as well as national access at 800-548-0003. The code length 
is identical to ITT, 7 digits. The prefix may safely assume the 
use of prefix qualifiers. 
 
Access' format is standard with one minor exception. Node + code 
+ 1 + area code and destination number. Like ITT's reverse 
format, the minor deviation from the norm is bound to save the 
telco money. The problem all these companies have is they must 
make the format easy enough for an idiot to operate and the MUST ‹j‹åmake the dialups and formats public knowledge. In doing both they
make their systems vulnerable. 
 
 
                          U.S. Telecom 
 
  U.S. Telecom was known as the "Metro" of the 950's. Codes were 
easily hacked and density varyed in direct proportion to the 
population of the area serviced. The Director of "Code Abuse" is 
a fellow named "Frank Porko". It seems  one of the prerequisites 
of being in telecommunications is  you have an odd name. Frank 
was recently promoted to this exaulted position. U.S. Tel isn't 
making money, so the company has been swallowed up by a bigger 
fish, Sprint. Frank didn't strike me as overly bright on the 
subject of phreaking. The company has tried the "Carrier Blast" 
only to find it worked for a couple of days and the phreaks by 
passed it. It can still be found at the end of the dialing 
sequence for their 950. Their latest security gizzy is to limit a
caller to four tries before it routes him to a dummy line. Sound 
familiar? Sprint does it with two tries and it doesn't work for 
them either. Ironically, phreaks in the military are hurting 
USTel much worse than the civilian poplulation. It appears 
government computers are being put to uses other than those 
intended.  U.S. Tel's 950-1033 dialup is already famous among 
phreaks. They've placed qualifiers on the codes, even so the 
return rate runs around five per hundred hacks. Five percent - 
not bad. The node uses the standard six digit format. I spoke 
with one of their chief programmers who was trying to hack out 
codes. He complained  the only code he could find was his own. 
This explains why the company's response time is so pathetic. 
Phreaks and computer engineers thinking at different levels. This
supports the old saying of "Set a Theif to Catch a Thief". 
 
U.S. Tel sports two 800 numbers, 800-345-0008 and 800-245-0033. 
These babies are infamous. The 345 number used to have codes 
packed like sardines, every tenth (fifteenth at the most) number 
was a good code. How could you lose? After several years of 
getting their asses kicked they finally changed the format and 
wised up a bit and went to a 14 digit code, ie. AT&T format. The 
format is constructed of two sets of three digits followed by two
sets of four digits, XXX-XXX-XXXX-XXXX. We can assume the first 
sets of three are area qualifiers, actually area codes. USTel 
doesn't use the actual area code as do AT&T and MCI. Area codes 
818 and 714 return as 527 and 662 respectively. Additionally, the
three digit prefix and suffix are also bastardized. Hackers have 
deduced  this is the product of a mathematical formula indexed 
from the users area code and phone number. The four digit 
"security code" is obtained by the same formula. A group of 
hackers who call themselves the IC (Inner Core) are working on 
cracking this coding. There are fifty of them. This translates to
fifty intellegent people, fifty computers all dedicated to 
breaking the MCI/Ustel code. It would seem  it is only a matter 
of time before they succeed. It's their belief  they will also 
reap the AT&T formula in the bargain. This stems primarily from ‹j‹åthe fact  MCI "borrowed" AT&T's format. 
‹‹ 
Hackers love a challenge and will rise to one almost at the 
dropping of a pin. Code cracking is what they love best. I have 
no doubt that the IC will succeed. 
 
 
                             Update 
 
The 14 digit format is being used for new accounts. Older 
customers still have their 6 digit codes. US Tel has never had 
terrific connections and under Sprint this has not improved. 
Two digit prefix qualifers are used. The calling areas are very 
small. Sprint is still the best bet for away from home phreaking.
 
 
 
                         SBS SKYLINE 
 
 
Each long distance company tries to promote itself in different 
ways. Skyline's approach is two fold, first price (so what's 
new), and secondly the fact  they use satellites to get their 
calls to their destinations. This isn't terribly impressive. 
Never the less, they obviously feel enough people will be 
impressed it's worth mentioning. Point in fact, most of the LD's 
use satellites. It would be impractical, not to mention 
expensive, to use AT&T's network for 100% of their traffic. 
Skyline has a well established dialup at 950-1088. Her format is 
the standard 6 digits. Hacks report it is a fairly easy system. 
 
It appears she has divided the country in areas which are rather 
large geographically. A code that originates in one area will be 
workable two to three hundred miles from its point of origin. The
six digit code will also work on her 800-446-4462 dialup. There 
are reports she also uses a seven digit format collateral to the 
six. 
 
Skyline has a reputation for vigorously calling the destination 
numbers after more than ten calls have been placed. This is the 
most they can realistically do. One must assume  they will score 
a certain percentage of people who are willing to give them 
information about the origin of the calls. Yet, as far as 
experienced hacks and phreaks go, you can be equally sure the 
trail will stop there and the possibility of back tracking is 
nil, if not impossible. This problem is not unique to Skyline. 
 
She appears to be your run of the mill long distance carrier 
without much to make it especially noteworthy. Like all other 
services, she isn't making money and is playing the merger game. 
I predict  by 1988 you will have three majors in the business, 
AT&T, MCI, and Sprint. The rest are fish bait waiting to be 
gobbled up by the larger fish.  See Updates for further
information. ‹j‹å 
 
 
                    Alliance Teleconferencing 
 
Alliance is a service of At&t. It provides people, usually 
business with what is essentially a party line; several people 
can join in the same conversation at the same time. It's an 
outstanding tool for business. The phreak approaches Alliance 
essentially from the same perspective, except that phreakery is 
the business. 
 
As a service of At&t, Alliance is approached indirectly through a
PBX or a diverter. The origination phone number of all calls 
place to Alliance is supplied by the ANI - Automatic Number 
Identifier. Placing the call through a PBX insures the ANI, and 
the people receiving the bill, will be someone other than the 
phreak. 
 
AT&T offers two basic conference services, Alliance 1000 and 
Alliance 2000. The former is your basic voice communication and 
the later has special graphic abilities. The service operates in 
all fifty states, Mexico, Canada, Puerto Rico, Bermuda and the 
Virgin Islands. 
 
To make a conference call the phreak will need to have the phone 
numbers of all the parties. Since this is not always desireable, 
the controller can route the call through a number of loops, thus
insuring the location of the phreak remains unknown (See Loops). 
The controller will then call 0+700+456-1000 for an audio 
conference. He'll then dial in the phone numbers as you would any
At&t call. When the party answers, he'll tell him to hold on 
while he connects the rest of the group. He'll hit the # button 
to continue adding people or the * to cancel his input. He can 
resume adding callers at any time by hitting the # button. Ending
a conference is easy, everyone hangs up. 
 
A national conference was held after the 415 bust to discuss 
added security measures to counteract the sting techniques used 
by the Fremont Police Department. Elite phreaks from coast to 
coast were dialed in. The phreaks saw the need for immediate 
discussion to plan their future actions and to discuss the 
details of the bust. One of the parties to the conference had 
actually seen the hacker known as Trask as he was being arrested.
Trask's down fall held vital concern to many on that conference 
as he held many personal phone numbers and names in his data 
base. The police did not obtain that information nor did Trask 
make a deal with them. Needless to say he was prosecuted. Other 
hackers involved in the 415 bust did make bargains with law 
enforcement which resulted in wide spread arrests. The Fremont 
Sting has successfully been used in Texas and there is every 
indication it will be used elsewhere. 
 ‹j‹å
Alliance provided the means for these hacks to meet and discuss 
their vital concerns. Some company with a PBX was billed for the 
calls. It would be accurate to say that while the 415 conference 
was called under "emergency" conditions, most conferences are 
little more than bullshit sessions. Some pranksters like to play 
games like dialing six or seven operators and listening to the 
say, "Operator", "Operator", "No I'm the operator can I help 
you?". This can go on for five or six minutes before they realize
they've been cross connected. Others like to call their favorite 
software company and taunt them as to how they've cracked their 
latest security measures. These applications are rather juvenile.
 
 
At&t Security is a feared aspect of the phreak's existence. With 
the exception of the PBX and the Diverter, Ma Bell holds all the 
cards. Tracing is a snap. Even so, At&t doesn't appear to be a 
mean mother in the tracking down of her Alliance phreaks. The 
company with the PBX is going to be stuck with the bill and it 
appears the phone company has little incentive to follow the 
scent. 
 
Phreaks of fifteen to twenty years pass used to place calls and 
have them billed to phone booths. ESS has made that game 
obsolete. However, Ma Bell didn't sit still for the theft. They 
dropped the billing on the party who received the call. If then 
didn't pay, they lost their phone service. The obvious option was
to give them the name and location of the person that really was 
responsible for the call. There are no reports that this 
collection device is still being used. From the phreak's vantage 
point, Alliance is pretty safe. 
 
Another old method of phreaking from payphones, and purported to 
have dome from Abby Hoffman, was to place a call from a payphone 
and to reverse the handset of an adjacent payphone to signal the 
operator that money was being dropped. As the phreak dropped the 
coins into the phone he wasn't placing the call from, the clinks 
and cur-chunks would signal her the correct amount had been 
deposited. This was corrected by simply making the telephone 
cords shorter. 
 
Cur-chunks are out and tones are in. So the technique now has a 
new twist called the Red Box. the box is a simple, handheld, 
battery operated tone generator that duplicates the tones used to
signal the operator the money has actually been placed into the 
payphone. Utilizing 1700 hz and 2200 hz (Duel Multi Frequency 
Tones), the box signals that a nickel has been dropped by pulsing
the frequencies at 66ms one time. A dime is recognized by 66ms on
once, off once, and on again. This produces two "beeps". The 
quarter is shown at 33 ms off and on five times. 
 
The newest phone technology also brinks greater phreaking 
opportunities. The Cordless telephone is one example. These units‹j‹

use two frequencies, one to send and the other to receive. the 
FCC restricts the number of frequencies available so that a trial
and error approach in hacking is feasible. Most people don't 
realize a cordless signal can carry for miles enabling others to 
hear every word of their conversations. A properly equipped 
techno-phreak can zero in on the signal, locate the source, and 
screw around until he find the correct "in" level. The result is 
a Godzilla of a phone bill for the unsuspecting owner of the 
cordless phone. Most phreaks wouldn't go to this kind of trouble.
Your technoelectrical wiz kids will. 
 
Ess, while being the scourge of phreakdom, has also enabled him 
some benefits. The payphone games and 950 phreaking are just two 
examples. ESS has, however, completely obliterated the use of the
infamous Blue Box. Phone company computers are programmed to be 
sensitive to the 2600 hz tone needed to seize a trunk line. And 
818 system operator (an adult) boxed one call on ESS. He was 
detected and traced but not arrested. The second time he box, he 
had a knock on the door and was arrested by the local police who 
had been accompanied by telco security. It's estimated by the mid
1990's the entire country will be on ESS. Today, only the major 
metropolitan areas utilize the service. Crossbar is still the 
norm for the boonies. 
 
Ess is a technological marvel, a logical step in the ever 
evolving future of the phone industry. Yet, it has some very 
scary aspects. The ability for abuse is tremendous. In the movies
you see the cop saying "We didn't have enough time for the 
trace." Not any longer. Traces, wire taps and much more can be 
programmed to be automatic. An operator at a console can push a 
few buttons and Zap, no civil rights. I knew a woman who's 
brother was a highly placed official in Pac Tel. Her boyfriend 
had broken up with her and she was livid. The boyfriend's 
communications were traced and tapped as a "courtesy" by the 
brother. There is a history of past abuse which spawned the few 
laws designed to protect the consumer. However, just as there are
laws against wire fraud, there are plenty of phreaks breaking 
those laws. The phreak can hide behind the technology of the 
computer and use it to break the law. So can your phone company. 
Murphy's law is applicable here, if it can happen it will. 
 
Government has a philosophy of regulating and controlling the 
hell out of small and medium sized business. Large politically 
powerful corporations are afforded the convenience of policing 
themselves. A classic case of the fox watching the hen house. If 
the public were even remotely aware of the capabilities of ESS 
the uproar would shatter Washington. Phone services have been 
taken for granted. The combination of ESS and the Data Services 
who sell their information over the network makes it impossible 
for anyone to have true privacy. TRW is a prime target of the 
hacking community. Hacks abuse that data service and others for 
their own informational needs. It logically follows that any ‹j‹å
agency with the inclination could use those services to create 
non existent people or to kill the electronic lives of real ones.
The computer gives spying an entirely new dimension. Believe it, 
Big Brother really is Watching! 
 with the bill and it 
appears the phone company has little incentive to follow the 
scent. 


