
HEY KIDZ!!!

It's the R0DENTS guide to PHREAKING!


//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
/                                                                            /
/                           THE R0DENTS GUIDE TO                             /
/                                PHREAKING!                                  /
/                                                                            /
/                             by Weapons Master                              /
/                                                                            /
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

     Feel like a R0DENT because you don't know what a 950 is?  Do you pretend 
to be ELITE all day and then cry at night as you realize you're just a R0DENT 
P0SER?  Well, look on the bright side... you'll get the LAST LAUGH when your 
friends get BUSTED FOR 950s!!!  But if you still want to learn something 
anyway, read this file and learn the basics.

btw this file isn't just for RODENTS, of course, it's for anyone who wants to 
learn a little more about phreaking.  Just to set something straight, 
phreakings not really my thing.  I'm a kid programmer who knows a zillion 
computer languages.  Next, I'm an aspiring hacker.  I just picked up phreaking 
along the way.  However, it seems like every week I get a call from some runt 
who wants to know how to phreak, so it seems there's definately a demand for 
this sort of thing.  And anyway, I don't mind helping runts...  how are they 
ever going to grow up, give me codes and info, and eventually get BUSTED while 
I get off scot free if I don't get them started?

     Hey, another thing, this file isn't going to have too many specifics, so 
if you're just gonna scan it for code templates and extenders, don't bother.  
Talk to me directly if you want that sort of info.

okay, so let's say you're really a rodent, and don't even know what phreaking 
is.  I'll explain phreaking and give some historical background on it.  If 
you're too cool for this section, go ahead and skipt it, but you'll sure feel 
like a T0TAL L00ZER when someone posts "Hey, whatever happened to Captain 
Crunch", and you reply "Well, my favorite's the crunchberries."  Then you 
wonder why you've been given SLUG access on all the elite boards.  (That's 
where you call, and the only main menu option you can select is 'G' for 
goodbye.)

     The original definition of phreaking was "exploring the phone system", 
but since it's degenerated into just making free fone calls.  I guess a good 
working definition of phreaking is 'phone tricks'.

     Phreaking started with Captain Crunch, the cereal.  In the late 70s, 
Captain Crunch cereal was giving away a whistle in its cereal, one of those 
free toys that you get.  Well, a group of blind kids learned that the whistle 
made a perfect 2600hz tone, and if one of them blew the whistle into the fone, 
they could do all sorts of amazing things, such as get free fone calls to 
anywhere.  They shared this secret with a man named John Draper, who would 
from this moment on be called Captain Crunch.  He was the first fone phreak.  
Not long after the blue box was invented, a box that made several different 
tones.  Later in life you could find Captain Crunch driving down roads and 
pulling up to payfones in his vw bug loaded with electronics equipment, and 
just staying there for days at a time, calling places, tapping people's lines 
and doing all sorts of arcane things I can't begin to imagine.  btw he was 
eventually busted for Fone Fraud.
     Anyway, lots of people got into the blue box thing.. the founders of 
Apple would hold demonstrations in their dorm (before the made the famous 
Crapple II) where they would use a blue box and a payfone and box the call 
around the world to a payfone right beside them.
     btw Blue Boxing doesn't work anymore, so don't rush out and download a 
blue box plan.  Using a blue box from home is one of the surest ways to have 
the Gestapo (Fone police) at your door.  Try it next time you're having fone 
trouble if you want to get good service... just have a lawyer handy.
     So when blue boxing got dangerous, people turned to code hacking.  Code 
hacking was great, you could just set up a good code hacker all night when you 
slept, and have a bunch of codes by morning.  Almost noone got caught, and the 
phreakers had a field day, making calls wherever they wanted.  It wasn't quite 
as easy as blue boxing, and you couldn't do quite so many things (such as 
tapping people's lines or boxing calls around the world), but it still was 
easy.
     People may disagree with me, but I think that the code hacking days are 
over.  Nowadays the companies are getting smarter, and an extender that once 
was thought of as safe suddenly busts four people.  Sure, there are still some 
safe extenders, but you never know which ones they are without putting your 
freedom at risk.  Nowadays a good pbx is worth its weight in gold, and a 
reliable outdial can also do wonders.  For those into ninja/espionage shit, 
there's also beige boxing, but that's a little much for me.
     What's the future?  To me it looks like a cellular fone with the rom 
reprogrammed.  I don't have a cellular fone, but from what I understand, get a 
nice supply of proms, and rom programmer, and you'll be making free fone calls 
off your cellular fone for years.  Unfortunately, it'll be a few years before 
most of us can afford a cellular fone.


     okay, HISTORY LESSON'S OVER.  Now let's talk about phreaking.  What can 
you do with phreaking?
     1. Make free fone calls.  (If you didn't know this, please SLAM your 
keyboard into your SKULL.)
     2. Get somebody's address and name from their phone number.
     3. Tap other people's fone lines.
     4. Make conference calls.
     5. Take over voice mail boxes.

     I'll discuss each of these briefly, except the first.  I'll reserve a 
whole section for that.

GET SOMEONE'S NAME AND ADDRESS FROM THEIR FONE NUMBER
     It's called a CNA.  CNA stands for customer name and address.  Bell has 
certain super/secret departments called CNA bureaus.  You can call one of 
them, and get the name and address for any fone number you want.  How do you 
find CNA numbers?  Get yourself a copy of Professor Falken's Phreak Tools, and 
it has a list of them.  If the number's out of date, then you're out of luck.  
The way it works is there's one number for each area code.
     What do you say when you call?  I'm not quite sure, but "I'm David Ross 
from Customer Service in Detroit.  Can you give me the name and address on 
xxx-xxxx?  Thanks."  They may ask you a password.  In that case, you're shit 
out of luck.  But I hear they usually don't.

TAP OTHER PEOPLE'S FONE LINES
     This is ninja shit, hardly phreaking.  Build yourself an FM wireless mike, 
and go to their house, and install it on the bell box outside their house.  I 
really haven't tried this, and probably won't, unless I suspect my 
girlfriend's cheating on me or something.

MAKE CONFERENCE CALLS
     Simple, call ALIANCE TELECONFERENCING, and tell them you want to make a 
conference call.  They'll be more than happy to help you.  WAIT, but you don't 
want to pay for it?  Well, use a pbx.  More on these below.

TAKE OVER VOICE MAIL BOXES
     Wouldn't it be fun to have a voice mail box (VMB) so all your friends 
around the country could leave you messages for free?  Well, maybe it would, 
but I haven't tried it.  But get yourself a few numbers to VMBs, and just 
start hacking codes.  (When it asks you to leave the message, enter in your 
four or five digit code, and if you're right, you'll get control of it.)  
They're all different, though, so it's hard to make generalizations about 
VMBs.


     okay, now what you've all been waiting for HOW TO MAKE FREE FONE CALLS!

     nope.  not yet, anyway.  Before I get into that, let me explain the two 
things every phreaker should know.  I don't care what kind of rodent you are, 
you should know this.  It's for your own safety.

     SO READ THIS!!!

     #1.  Trace times.  TV has indoctrinated in us the myth that it takes 
forever to trace a call.  How long do you think it takes to trace a call?  
Fill in your answer here _____________.  Okay, it's a trick question.  ALL 
CALLS ARE ALREADY TRACED!!!  Every single digit you enter into the fone is 
recorded somewhere in the fone company dungeons.  Normally, they never check 
them.  I've heard varying stories of how long they keep these printouts, some 
say a couple days, some say months.  But if they suspect fraud on a number, 
they can just set up a trace for a week, and have the numbers of everyone who 
called, as well as the times and the length of the calls.  So watch those 
local calls from your home fone.  When in doubt, use a payfone.

     #2.  800 exception flag.  Jimmy Phreaker finds a really good extender 
that he hacks the hell out of all month.  "Haha, they won't bust me on 
950-1087 like everybody else, I'm hacking 1-800-xxx-xxxx!!!"  The next month 
Jimmy Phreaker comes home to find FBI agents putting his computer in boxes, 
and keeping it for six months.  What happened?  Did his pal SUPERRODENT rat on 
him?  No, his hacking triggered the 800 exception flag.  When you call an 
excessive amount of 800 numbers (more than you usally do every month), then a 
trouble card shows up at your local fone company with your name and address.  
Not good.  800s can also trace fairly easily, btw, though they usually can't 
find all your digits.. probably just your area code and exchange.  So feel 
free to call a few 800 numbers every month, but if you're calling more than 50 
or 100 from your home fone, than you'll proabaly have some explaining to do.

     MAKING FREE FONE CALLS/BEATING THE TRACE

     I've included this together as most ways of making free fone calls also 
beat the trace.  Here's the main ways to make free fone calls:

     1. Blue Boxing  (Don't try it.)
     2. Stealing Long Distance Services
     3. Using 800 pbxs
     4. using local pbxs
     5. using a pc pursuit outdial
     6. using a telenet outdial
     7. beige boxing
     8. reprogramming a cellular fone

     BTW in all of this, I will assume the phreaker is using his home fone.  
There's another section later on making calls when you don't have to worry 
about safety, like from a payfone or institution.

BLUE BOXING - Not worth mentioning, except for the fact that it doesn't work 
anymore, and is very dangerous.  Don't try it.

STEALING LONG DISTANCE SERVICES - okay, Joe Q. Salespig is in Miami, and he 
wants to make a long distance call.  He dials 950-1022, his MCI port number, 
and enters in his code and then the number he wants to call.  "k-kool", you're 
saying, "can I do that?"  Sure you can.  Get yourself a good extender 
(950-1087 is the extender), a template (XXX6XX is a template, and it means the 
first 3 digits can be any number, the fourth is a six, and the fifth and sixth 
can be any number), and a good code hacking program.  Try to hack two ports or 
extenders at once for safety.  Is it risky?  Well...  I wouldn't do it.  Then 
there are some people who have been hacking codes for years with no problems.  
Talk to one of them if you want to go this route.

USING 800 PBXs - Remember my describing the 800 exception flag above?  Well, 
hacking anything starting with 800 should be avoided at all costs... way too 
dangerous.  You don't want to trip a BELL trouble card.  So don't hack these.  
Shouldn't be a big deal to use them though.

USING LOCAL PBXs - Okay, this is the way to go.  Takes a lot of work though.  
Every pbx is a little different, but basically you call, dial a 9 or a code + 
9, and then you're on THAT COMPANIES fone line.  Call anywhere, they get the 
bill.  Use it sparingly, and you'll have free calls for months.  If it's a 
flat rate pbx, you can probably use it without a problem.  Otherwise they'll 
get pissed and change the code when they find you out.  Rehack the code, if 
you're a dick, or just move on to another pbx.  Okay, what's the catch to 
local pbxs?  Well, you have to find them, which is a pain in the ass.  There's 
been rumors of a pbx scanner going around, but I haven't seen anything that 
works reliably on a hayes compatible.  So the only method of finding them is 
to leave your computer on with a wardialer program, and sit there and listen.  
Find some companies in the fone book with their numbers all grouped together, 
and scan a range of likely numbers.  Listen for a funny tone, and that may be 
the pbx.  They also may just give you a dial tone  (like you dial...  ring... 
ring... click... dial tone...).  So local pbxs are the way to go, if you can 
find them.

USING A PC PURSUIT OUTDIAL - This is complicated.  There's a service called 
telenet and it has a service called pc pursuit.  If you can access the outdial 
modems, you can call most places in the country.  To access these you need 
either..
     1. an nui (network user id) (also called PC pursuit id and password)
     2. a method of making non-collect calls, such as a private telenet pad.
Telenet is to big a topic for me to go into in this file, as it is worth at 
least a file on it's own, and there's no way I could do it justice here.  
maybe in another file.

USING A TELENET OUTDIAL - Basically you call a computer on telenet, and it 
gives you access to it's modem.  You csan make calls, and they'll be charged 
to this computer.  Again, telenet is worth a file of it's own.

BEIGE BOXING - More ninja shit.  You go to somebody's house, and bring your 
own fone (or laptop) and splice into their line, and make fone calls that wind 
up on their bill.  No, you don't have to break into their house, just find a 
bell "can", on of those green boxes that say fone company, and bust in.

REPROGRAMMING YOUR CELLULAR FONE - I don't have a cellular fone, so I don't 
know much about this, but cellular fones have a built in ROM which sends the 
switching office a certain id.  Program it to give other people's ids, and 
you're on other people's accounts.  Get a vw microbus, bring a laptop, a 
cellular phone, and some proms and programmers.  Drive cross country picking 
up chicks, calling boards, and hacking into computers, all risk free.  Sounds 
like fun, huh?  I have some files on this (reprogramming cellular fones, not 
picking up chicks), so if anyone does have a cellular fone, and wants a guy to 
drive cross country with, or just some info on making free calls, let me know.


PHREAKING WHERE SAFETY ISN'T AN ISSUE
     okay, you're one of those lucky bastards with a laptop, or you have 
access to your schools modem, and you know there's no way they can catch you.  
Use old codes, that's the best way.  Just use them until they die.  I call all 
my college friends every week with an old 800 pbx I have... perfectly safe, as 
long as you do it from a payfone.  I've heard of people programming phone 
dialers to hack codes from payfones, but I think that's just a rumor.  But 
feel free to hack 1087s if you're using a laptop form a payfone.  There are 
lots of good templates around, and safety doesn't mean anything from a 
payfone.  Just don't use the same one.  So if you have a laptop, hack 1087s or 
whatever's easiest, and just use the codes until they die.  Don't start using 
these codes from home though.. stick to payfones.


     Okay, that's the file.  I was pretty general in this file, but I had a 
lot of ground to cover.  If you want specifics, get in touch with me directly.  
I'm always willing to help people.  If I screwed up, let me know too.  Don't 
bug me for codes, though, as I hate that.  (That means you, Batman...)

GREETS!!! - to The Noid for letting me on your board when I was a PD l00zer, 
to Basket Case for doing the same, to The Excommunicator and Laughing Gas for 
getting me started, to Batman for bugging me for codes every day (don't call 
me until you have some information for ME, and stop giving out my info as your 
own.), to Coroner for being a nice guy and beating me every time in Global 
War, to BaD for taking other people's cracks and putting their name on them 
(talk about lame.)


GRAFFITI!!! - That gum you like is coming back in style.  Al's abortion's, you 
rape em, we scrape em.  Would you like fries with that?  HOMIE DON'T PLAY 
THAT!  "Yeah, I've been hacking 1087s, what's the big deal?"  "Did the dial 
tone sound fainter than normal?"  "Remember that 3 gig board that was going 
up?"  Somebody, SHOOT ME!!!  "I'm writing ZooMaster."  "Just give your hard 
drive a good shake, that'll fix it."  Bob.  So manly he's Danly.


I can be reached on the following boards:
     The Digital Underground  (NAP/PA home)
     Hall of Illusion

(c) 1990 by Weapons Master.  You may distribute this file to any baord without 
modifications.

     