
    ___________                   /\
   /           \                 <<>>  ___             ______   ______
   \===     ===/  /\      ______ |  | /  /     /\     /  ____\ /  ____\
        \   \    /  \    /  ____\|  |/  /     /  \   (  (____ (  (____
    ___  \   \  / /\ \  /  /     |     /     / /\ \   \____  \ \____  \
    \   \_>   >/ ==== \<  <      |     \    / ==== \       )  )     )  )
     \       // /    \ \\  \_____|  |\  \  / /    \ \ ____/  / ____/  /
      \=====//=/      \=\\======/|==| \==\/=/      \=\\=====/  \=====/

                                BBS

                           Proudly Presents
                               Another
                      Phucked Phreak Production
*************************************************************************
*708/808/7629**           **Monday-January 28, 1991**           **Vol #1*
**                                                                     **
*                                                                       *
**                       Stuff About Stoners (PT1)                     **
*                                                                       *
**                                                                     **
*                 CopyMUCH 1991 (M) Spanky/PPP/JAckass BBS              *
*************************************************************************


 "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
 prohibitting the free excercise thereof; or abbridging the freedom of
 speech or of the press; or of the right of the people peaceably to
 assemble, and to petition the Goverment for a redress of grievances"

Under the above Law set forth in the First Amendment To The Constitution
Of The United States Of America, The Author releases this work into the
pubic domain for INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY.

**Intro**

This is the first in a series of NEW Gphiles...Phucked Phreak Productions
was formed to write Anarchy and other kick ass text files...It gets real
old after ya see just about every Gphile in the world...Most dating back
to the early 80's....Other projects that are in the wings, is some NEW
updated information on many old subjects and other tripped out things
just to cheese on...

**Vol #1**

The first thing that we must do is decide if your are indeed a Stoner..
The following is a short test..If you are a TRUE stoner, then you will get
4 out of 5 right...They are rather simple... Answers follow the test..
 
1) Although not as popular as other forms of Pot consumption, it is
beleived to be way to obtain the best high..
 
2) What class of drugs does Pot fit into?
 
3) What is commonly known to be the best type of Pot?
 
4) What is the cost of Pot for a quarter ounce as of the date this file
was written?
 
5) If you smoked the same amount of Pot in a bowl or a joint, which would
get you more high and why?
 
 
Other facts:
         
             1) Most stoners are the creativ type. 
             2) Stoners are of all ages
             3) All cool stoners know what a Hooka is.
             4) Most REAL stoners never cough!
             5) All REAL stoners have at least one kick ass pipe!
 
Answers:
 
             1) Eating it..In brownies or cookies..
             2) Mild Hallucinogenic..
             3) Skunk Bud..
             4) $40-$60 depending on where you live.
             5) A joint because the resin accumulates at the end..
 
If you answered at least 4 of the 5 right, then you are probably a true
stoner..If the other things fit you too, then you truly are a stoner..If
you are a stoner then lets go on..If you are not, then ya need to smoke
some more pot....
 
Everybody is always looking for the perfect smoking device...I will give
ya a short summary of what have turned out to be the best for me....
 
Bowl/Pipe - By far the Proto Pipe..Available for $39.95 from Proto Pipe
            Inc. It has a patented design which includes a removable
            canister that holds 5 spare bowls of pot..It also comes with a
            hardened steel pick for cleaning and removing he built in
            resin chamber...Done in nice brass, it has a permanant screen
            and a flip over cap. Yet with all this, it small enough to be
            concealed in the palm of your hand and not a problem to
            crotch..
 
                            Proto Pipe Inc. 
                            P.O. Box 129
                           Willits, CA. 95490 
Bong -     With so many shapes and sizes it is hard to say..If I had to
           vote for just one it would be the Graphics Glass 18"...It is
           large enough to give ya a great hit, yet small enough to hide
           in a closet.
 
Papers -    JOB 1.25 or Zig Zag.
 
 
Well that should about do it for Part one....Look for part two coming
soon.
 
 
If you are intrested in joining Phucked Phreak Productions and help write
some great NEW Gphiles, the contact Spanky (SysOp) at JAckass BBS..
 
Please do your part and distribute this file EVERYWHERE!! 
 
This GPhile brought to you by: 
 
                          Phucked Phreak Productions
                                  JAckass BBS
                                 708-808-7629
                           Courier HST 14.4k/85 MEGS
                                24 Hours/7 Days
                                FNET NODE #613
                                 Wheeling, Il.
