
29955 5-JUN 02:49  General Information
     RE: Essay on Promoting OS9 (Re: Msg 29529)
     From: MARTYGOODMAN To: THEFERRET (NR)

A long long time ago, I noticed a program in the CoCo SIG Database that was a
tokenized end packed BASIC program.  Now, such a program CANNOT be properly
downloaded with X modem, without going into the CoCo with some pokes after
loading it in and then saving it out again.

   Anyway...  there were two dozen members who had DL'd it... and I knew of no
complaints about this program which just COULD NOT WORK as it was.

   I guess this means that MOST of the time when folks DL stuff and it does not
work, they just shrug their shoulders, toss it, and try someting else.

   ---marty

-*-

29956 5-JUN 02:52  Programmers Den
     RE: SCSI operation (Re: Msg 29544)
     From: MARTYGOODMAN To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

I got much of the info I now need from a pin out from a friend and a manual for
a SCSI hard drive controller.  AT least I now know in some detail how SCSI
busses normally identify and select devices for communication.

  I was (for my own amusement) attempting to investigate the workings of a SCSI
based hardware KEY to a Macintosh II Software product.   So far, I THINK I have
ascertained that the thing does NOT communicate in "normal" SCSI fashion, as a
given SCSI device number.

  ---marty

-*-

29957 5-JUN 02:55  Programmers Den
     RE: SCSI operation (Re: Msg 29707)
     From: MARTYGOODMAN To: OS9UGVP (NR)

More recently I got hold of (from COCOKIWI) a manual for a particular SCSI hard
drive controller board that had a lot of info about SCSI bus device selection.
And a pin out of the Mac 2 SCSI bus.

   Thanks, tho... I may yet have a chat with you on this matter.

  ---marty

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29958 5-JUN 05:37  General Information
     B&B HARDDRIVE
     From: WILLALHUFF   To: ALL

I BOUGHT A BURK & BURK COCOXT CORUN.  I GET A CRC ERROR OR BAD PATH NAME ERROR
WHEN I TYPE IN OS9: EZGEN -D /D1/OS9BOOT HAS ANYONE HAD THIS PROBLEM?  I AM OPEN

TO SUGESTIONS!
                BILL

-*-

29959 5-JUN 05:40  General Information
     MAGNAVOX 8 CM 515
     From: WILLALHUFF   To: ALL

DOES THIS MONITOR SUPPORT AN EGA CARD ON A DOS MACHINE OR JUST CGA.
                     BILL

-*-

29960 5-JUN 14:42  Utilities

     From: SMIDAV       To: ALL

I am interested in programs to convert OS-9 data base to DOS data base.  I have
OS-9 profile and will be converting for use on a Tandy 1000.

-*-

29961 5-JUN 20:26  General Information
     RE: os9 dev. sys. software (Re: Msg 29931)
     From: RANDYE       To: EDDIEKUNS

Thank you very much for the information.  I called the Radio Shack that you
mentioned and they still had the software and they are going to send it to me.
Thanks again, RANDYE

-*-

29966 6-JUN 00:27  General Information
     RE: os9 dev. sys. software (Re: Msg 29961)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: RANDYE (NR)

Great!

               Eddie

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29962 5-JUN 21:16  Device Drivers
     burke vs disto 4/1scII
     From: TARDOS9      To: ALL

Have there been any reported problems when a disto SCII w/ a 4/1 board is used
in an mpi w/ a burke xt interface. I had to choose this configuration because I
coul not locate any compatible controllers for the disto 4/1. This setup seems
to have screwed up the interupts to the 4/1's rs232 port, but it works fine
without the burke interface installed in the mpi (I am using the disto drivers
designsted for the mpi).

Also, I came across an ancient WD1003-cmd hard drive controller. Can this be
made to work with the disto 4/1?. It would be great to pull this mpi off of the
coco3 for good (with the power off, of course). It's not worth the luxury of two

hard drives at the cost of a serial port... help!


-*-

29964 5-JUN 23:15  Device Drivers
     RE: burke vs disto 4/1scII (Re: Msg 29962)
     From: MAREK        To: TARDOS9 (NR)

May I suggest that you purchase the latest copy of Computer Shopper.  Locate the

add from Computer Surplus Store...they carry the Adaptec 4000A SCSI controller
that you need (btw: this is the controller that Tony recommends that a person
use, it's the fastest).

The problem you're having by using the B&B and 4-1 is the fact that the B&B is
mapped at $FF50-$FF53, right over the 4-1 RTC and parallel port. I also had that

problem.  Reason is I inherited the B&B interface and controller (DTC 5150).

Hope this helps.

-Michael


-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29963 5-JUN 21:51  Device Drivers
     RE: 720K DISK DRIVE (Re: Msg 29954)
     From: MCIRISH      To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

MARTY, DSKINI DOESN'T WORK, THE ONLY TERMINATOR ON THE LINE IS THE 1000K ON THE
3.5, (THE LAST DRIVE ON THE CABLE), THE DRIVE IS NEW,  I'VE GOT TO BORROW BACK
MY VOM FROM A FRIEND AND WILL RECHECK THE CABLE. WILL GET BACK TO YOU. ONE MORE
THOUGHT, IS IT POSSIBLE THAT THE STOCK 80 TRACK DRIVER "/MODULES/D2_80D.DD" GOOD

FOR THIS TYPE OF DRIVE.
   MORE LATER, THANKS FOR THE RESPONSE ---JOE

-*-

29965 5-JUN 23:44  Telcom
     Letters
     From: CTL56        To: ALL

I seem to be having a problem with lost cha on the en. I am using a Disto
SCIwith a 3-in-1 board and Packard Bell 2400Ba
 This sometis happen the screen clears and I lose some of t characaters orven
the entire line sometimes. If anyone has a suggestioon thiprobl it would be
helpful

Thanx

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 