
29729 26-MAY 01:43 Telcom
     RE: KBCom (Re: Msg 29721)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Hehehe.... still working on the commercial version!  Making really good progress

lately.  Biggest thing waiting:  autodialer.

               Eddie

-*-

29739 26-MAY 11:36 Telcom
     RE: KBCom (Re: Msg 29729)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: EDDIEKUNS

I hope you get the script language working good, too. We need a good term
program which has good scripting capabilities.

Zack

-*-

29761 27-MAY 12:45 Telcom
     RE: KBCom (Re: Msg 29739)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Well, scripting is pretty low in my list right now.  Too much else to finish up.

Eventually, KBCom will come with nice scripting.  Also, I'll document how it
works so if you don't like it, you can write your own!

I'm quickly running out of time tho!

                       Eddie

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29730 26-MAY 01:51 Programmers Den
     RE: BALLS.C (Re: Msg 29699)
     From: NES          To: GREGL

Greg, thanx got it goning.. NES

-*-

29731 26-MAY 01:51 Programmers Den
     RE: BALLS.C (Re: Msg 29722)
     From: NES          To: DODGECOLT

thanx for the help NES

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29732 26-MAY 02:00 Programmers Den
     Planet Engine
     From: NES          To: ALL

I just got my copy of the new program Planet Engine for os9 level 2 from Gravity

Studio.  Qeston is there anyone out there have it running. I get the MV menu,
and it draw's part of the screen, but when it starts to place the stars and
planet's start getting an error 194 (bad/undefined buffer

number... anyone had this problem? there Manual look's sharp, and the menu's are

ok, but the error 194 keep it from working right have sent them a letter about
this but hope maybe someone out there has had the same trouble...

NES


-*-

29733 26-MAY 02:07 Programmers Den
     MV menu
     From: NES          To: ALL

Hay can you use a Framed window with scroll bar's as a overlay menu? do you need

to define it like the main Framed window? I have it set up like this: owset     
t
(size and stuff) _ss_wset(0,WT_FSWIN,0);   or should it have
_ss_wset(0,WT_FSWIN,&MENU)... where MENU is defined like the window menu's are
set??? NES

-*-

29734 26-MAY 05:22 Programmers Den
     digitising sound
     From: THEFERRET    To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

Is there an "easy" way (in other words, without buying stuff) to digitise sound
through the serial port?  And more importantly, is there a prog that does it?
I've "search"ed the os9 and coco databases, but no luck

-*-

29735 26-MAY 07:10 Telcom
     RE: DCM212 and RS-232pak (Re: Msg 29727)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: CHYDE

Well, I found the problem to be a bad connection at the RS-232 Pak end of the
cable...*P*poor manufacturing. I bumped the cable while online with a local BBS
and it died (no echo) so I wiggled the wiggle out of it and things came back to
life. I've replaced the connector (original was molded onto the cable and wires
not soldered!) with one from Radio Shack and things are okay and hunky-dory.
Didn't expect anything like that. I will definitely replace the connector on the

other end first chance. Thanks for your help anyway. Bill

-*-

29736 26-MAY 10:09 General Information
     MPI
     From: TEDJAEGER    To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

Kevin, I think I really need some expert advise! Off and on for about 6 months
I have been trying to get my CoCo in a AT case. The hangup has been replacing my

old (large) MPI with another product. I have tried two Slot Paks but both failed

after a couple of hours of use. More recently I have acquired a small MPI. While

the Slot Pak would switch the SCS line appropriately for my RS HD interface and
RS floppy controller, the small MPI that I have now will not allow me to boot my

hard drive. I'm really puzzled because my old (large) MPI works fine with
exactly the same cards installed and using the same boot disk. I just paid dear
Tandy $30.00 to upgrade my newer (small) MPI for CoCo 3 use bu that did not
solve the problem. Here are my efforts to diagnose: --When I first got the MPI
it would not boot my HD although it would boot an all floppy os9 system.
Suspecting slot #3 (where the RS HD interface must go) might be bad, I stuck a
game cartridge in it and it worked fine. So I decided to do the satellite
upgrade figuring maybe it really was necessary with a RS HD interface. --When
the upgraded MPI would not work, I started wondering about the BLOB. I shortened

my HD cable (which was about 4 feet long) to 18 inches. No help. Then I made a
new boot disk with /h0 reconfigured as /hd (thanks, Zack). I thought this would
get me around any BLOB centered boot up problem and then I could access the HD
as /hd. I confirmed that this worked with my old (large) MPI. I inserted the new

(small) MPI and the system booted but any attempt to access the HD produces
error 240 - unit error. --Next, I tried booting a floppy os9 system with the
floppy controller in slot #3 and the HD interface out of the system. When I
selected slot #3 with the switch on the front of the MPI case, this worked. So
next I left the floppy controller in slot #3, used the switch to select slot #4,

poked 65407, 34 to software select slot #3, did an EXEC &HC000, to bring up DISK

BASIC, and booted a floppy OS9 system OK. Figured this meant that the MPI can
software select slot #3 as is must do when the OS9 hard drive system boots. --
Finally, for what it is worth, I booted the floppy system with the controller in

slot #4 and my RS232 card in slot 1 and successsfully ran SuperComm. I gues this

means the interrupts are working.

The other observation I can share is that there does seem to be some elctrical
difference between my old and new MPI because, at power up, this happens. My HD
and two floppies are mounted in an AT case and powered by an AT supply. My CoCo
and MPI are on my desk and powered by their own supplies. My power up process is

to first turn on the AT power supply and let the HD come up to speed, then turn
on the MPI and CoCo by flipping the switch on a six-outlet power bar. With the
newer MPI, when I turn on the AT supply the access light on /d1 glows
continuously, until I turn on the MPI and CoCo power. This does not happen with
the old MPI installed.

My brain is broke and I really want to put all of this stuff in my AT case. Any
ideas as to what is going on? What is error 240 suppose to mean?

Thanks, TedJaeger

-*-

29737 26-MAY 10:11 General Information
     MPI failure
     From: TEDJAEGER    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Zack, I think I really need some expert advise! Off and on for about 6 months I
have been trying to get my CoCo in a AT case. The hangup has been replacing my
old (large) MPI with another product. I have tried two Slot Paks but both failed

after a couple of hours of use. More recently I have acquired a small MPI. While

the Slot Pak would switch the SCS line appropriately for my RS HD interface and
RS floppy controller, the small MPI that I have now will not allow me to boot my

hard drive. I'm really puzzled because my old (large) MPI works fine with
exactly the same cards installed and using the same boot disk. I just paid dear
Tandy $30.00 to upgrade my newer (small) MPI for CoCo 3 use bu that did not
solve the problem. Here are my efforts to diagnose: --When I first got the MPI
it would not boot my HD although it would boot an all floppy os9 system.
Suspecting slot #3 (where the RS HD interface must go) might be bad, I stuck a
game cartridge in it and it worked fine. So I decided to do the satellite
upgrade figuring maybe it really was necessary with a RS HD interface. --When
the upgraded MPI would not work, I started wondering about the BLOB. I shortened

my HD cable (which was about 4 feet long) to 18 inches. No help. Then I made a
new boot disk with /h0 reconfigured as /hd (thanks, Zack). I thought this would
get me around any BLOB centered boot up problem and then I could access the HD
as /hd. I confirmed that this worked with my old (large) MPI. I inserted the new

(small) MPI and the system booted but any attempt to access the HD produces
error 240 - unit error. --Next, I tried booting a floppy os9 system with the
floppy controller in slot #3 and the HD interface out of the system. When I
selected slot #3 with the switch on the front of the MPI case, this worked. So
next I left the floppy controller in slot #3, used the switch to select slot #4,

poked 65407, 34 to software select slot #3, did an EXEC &HC000, to bring up DISK

BASIC, and booted a floppy OS9 system OK. Figured this meant that the MPI can
software select slot #3 as is must do when the OS9 hard drive system boots. --
Finally, for what it is worth, I booted the floppy system with the controller in

slot #4 and my RS232 card in slot 1 and successsfully ran SuperComm. I gues this

means the interrupts are working.

The other observation I can share is that there does seem to be some elctrical
difference between my old and new MPI because, at power up, this happens. My HD
and two floppies are mounted in an AT case and powered by an AT supply. My CoCo
and MPI are on my desk and powered by their own supplies. My power up process is

to first turn on the AT power supply and let the HD come up to speed, then turn
on the MPI and CoCo by flipping the switch on a six-outlet power bar. With the
newer MPI, when I turn on the AT supply the access light on /d1 glows
continuously, until I turn on the MPI and CoCo power. This does not happen with
the old MPI installed.

My brain is broke and I really want to put all of this stuff in my AT case. Any
ideas as to what is going on? What is error 240 suppose to mean?

Thanks, TedJaeger

-*-

29740 26-MAY 11:39 General Information
     RE: MPI failure (Re: Msg 29737)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: TEDJAEGER

Let me absorb this offline and get back to you.

Zack

ps, to anyone else who reads Ted plea, if you can also help, PLEASE DO!!! <grin>

-*-

29741 26-MAY 14:03 General Information
     RE: MPI failure (Re: Msg 29737)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: TEDJAEGER

Ted,

Wow, I wouldn't wish anyone to be having the problems you're having! btw, I
apologize about the MPI I was supposed to get for you, I have given up on the
guy and torn up your check.

I am in no way a hardware guru, so I would also be scratching my head if I had
the same situation to deal with as you. But I may be able to offer some
observations.

First of all, 4 feet does seem rather long for a hd cable. I think the key here
is that with your hd configured as /hd, you get a 240 error when attempting to
access it. And changing the device name from /h0 to /hd does nothing to help a
potential BLOB problem. The main thing you can do about the BLOB is to rearrange

modules in your bootlist so that all RBF related modules are located in the same

bank of memory. It's been explained to me twice, but I still don't fully
remember exactly how this is done. I know how to move modules around, but I
forgot just where they should be. I do know that you need to look at a "mdir e"
command output and the RBF modules (RBF, all RBF device drivers and descriptor
modules) should not overflow from one major number in the second column to the
next.

Chris Burke knows this in and out, he helped me, but I use his CoCo-XTC. You're
problem may also be related to you using the RS HD controller and driver.

One last thing, the situation you mention about the access light staying on on
your floppy until you power up the MPI sounds strange. I never noticed that
situation on my system.

I noticed you also sent the same message to Kev, he will be better able to fully

explain what a 240 error is and what could possibly causing it.

Zack

-*-

29743 26-MAY 17:47 General Information
     RE: MPI failure (Re: Msg 29741)
     From: TEDJAEGER    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Thanks for taking an interest, Zack. Since I could boot fine with my HD
configured as /hd and still could not access the hard drive through the small
MPI, I figured that I had at least avoided the BLOB and, given the continuing
failure to access the hard drive, something must still be messed up in the MPI.
I will take a look at where my boot modules are with mdir. --Bests, TedJaeger

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29738 26-MAY 10:45 Telcom
     RE: wizpro (Re: Msg 29676)
     From: OS9UGED      To: LEFKA (NR)

Hmmmm I'll need some more info then. Exactly what is in your AIF, it should say:

"icons/wiz" "95" "2" "80" "24" "1" "0".

-*-

29742 26-MAY 16:19 General Information
     RE: Drive cable mod. for 4 drives (Re: Msg 27182)
     From: RANDYADER    To: DODGECOLT

The interface goes between the controller and the drives. It's supposed three
drive select lines into four lines and the side select line goes straight
through. I had a problem of selecting the drives but found I had wires the chip
wrong. My problem now is getting the drives to turn on and rotate - the drive
activity light comes on but not the drive. Also to access the extra drive I have

modified the CC3DISK driver and

Ext. ADOS3.

-*-

29744 26-MAY 21:49 Users Group
     RE: MOTD (Re: Msg 29582)
     From: OS9BERT      To: OS9UGED (NR)

I did get it, thank you!

     (o)   (o)
         U
       \___/

Bert Schneider

-*-

29745 26-MAY 22:05 General Information
     Circuit Cellar Ink
     From: OS9BERT      To: ALL

This letter just appeared in the June/July 1990 Circuit Cellar magazine:

OF 6800s AND DAAs

     I know this is late, but I agree with Chuck Yerkes's letter in Circuit
Cellar INK #11.  I think it's important not to ignore the 6502 and 6800 family
trees.

     My interest in the 6502 arose when BYTE was two months old, when the
magazine ran an article on the CPU.  Knowing nothing about software, what
attracted me to the 6502 was its cheap price.  It took me about three years (you

might say I grew up with BYTE), but when I did get a computer, it used the 6502.

I've stayed with the 6502/6800 tress since then. Sure, I bought a Model 100
laptop, but don't program on it because the mnemonics look funny.  And how much
easier it would be to program if it used a 6809 with its relocatable machine
language, instead of the 8085 which dosen't even have relative branches.

     I also thought that it was important that [Mr. Yerkes] mentioned OS9.
SUupposedly it is quite popular in industry, especially as part of controllers,
but the popular computing press has fairly ignored it.  But I did see one
article in a UNIX magazine about a year ago, which included it because they were

discussing alternative operating systems for when UNIX isn't fast enough.

     Having used OS9 as an operating system for appications in my Color
Computer, I'm now starting to see its usefulness in controller applications.
Instead of going the mainstream 80x86 route, with its ever-increasing demand for

higher speeds and more memory, it seems much more valid to expand my system by
offloading various features to their own litte microprocessors. The features
that make OS9 good, its relocatability, ROMability, small size, and ability to
load correct versions of modules and ignore erlier version will make this task
easy.  I haven't yet decided whether I'll leave OS9 in the "coprocessors" or
replace it with simpler code once the main code has been finished........
.........

Michael Black Montreal, Quebec

We all love OS9, but more folks know something about the intel set of micros
than the moto set.  Same with operating systems.  More folks know about MS-DOS
(some even think it is the ONLY operating system).  This is similar to the two
video formats, BETA and VHS.  BETA was far superior, which one do you think Joe
Public chose?

-*-

29756 27-MAY 11:17 General Information
     RE: Circuit Cellar Ink (Re: Msg 29745)
     From: 6809ER       To: OS9BERT (NR)

   About a year ago SRB Software started a new line of computer products based
on hardware devices.  (Maybe we should change our name to SRB Hardware, grin!)
    Anyway, we needed a micro-controler chip and in place of the Intel line we
are using a 6801/6803 from Moto{ola.  This chip is based on the 6800 with a few
new commands (like LDD and MUL) so it looked a little bit more like a 6809.  But

the micro-comtroler's built-in u!hardware device are what sold us on the chip.
Things like Serial port, Programable timer, built in ram and PIA ports cut down
on the other suport chips needed by our hand held computer device.  All total,
the Mileage Computer only has 7 ICs including the power supply and fits on a 3
by 5 PC board.

   This on designer you don't have to tell twice about Motorola!

   Steve Bjork, SRB Software

P.S.  the Intel version of the software would have been 35% bigger! Another cost

savings of the 6801/3 chip!

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29746 26-MAY 22:17 Users Group
     RE: Advent (Re: Msg 29543)
     From: OS9BERT      To: EASYSINGLES

You may need to patch the original program to recognize the hard drive.  I think

the original program used the path "/d0/misc" instead of the /h0 path listing.
If you have modpatch or patch, you can patch the program. Just do a dump to find

out where in the program you will find any "/d0" entries.  Make sure you update
the CRC as well.  If you are still having problems, I'll look up the files
myself and upload a scipt for modpatch for you.

Bert Schneide

-*-

29760 27-MAY 12:31 Users Group
     RE: Advent (Re: Msg 29746)
     From: EASYSINGLES  To: OS9BERT (NR)

Thanks for the reply. I used dEd to change that path problem, but still can't
get it to work. I changed all occurance of /d0 to /h0. put the data files in
can't open /h0/misc/advent2.dat Fatal error number 200 which means Path table
full.

I have even tried it on floppy with the original file. Still the same errors. I
would really appreciate any help you can give. Thank you very much. Bob Dorrell


-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29747 26-MAY 22:21 General Information
     RE: ROBOT ODYESSY I (Re: Msg 29562)
     From: OS9BERT      To: WAYNELAIRD (NR)

It comes with some sample files to use for some of the chips.  Also, have you
tried to get Robot Odyessy to work under level two?  I would sure like to get
mine to work under level two.

Bert Schneider

-*-

29749 27-MAY 02:21 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29572)
     From: KENHALTER    To: TIMKOONCE (NR)

 Thanks again for your great reply Tim... You ain't kiddin' about the marketing
for msdos machines. Any one that owns a CoCo knows what a little marketing could

do! Wouldn't it be great if we could go down to the mall or local record store
and take your pick of just about everything you see that has anything to do with

computers?!
 I went down and picked up one of those modem paks. I haven't used it yet tho...

Is there any way of getting around that darned 300 bps modem and just send
output to an external 1200 bps modem?
 Boy! I'm sure glad it was only $9.95!  Ken Halter

-*-

29750 27-MAY 02:21 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29566)
     From: KENHALTER    To: ZACKSESSIONS

 Thanks for your reply on the development sys. Now.... What the heck does RMA
stand for?
 Thanks again.     Ken Halter

-*-

29757 27-MAY 11:55 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29750)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: KENHALTER (NR)

RMA -> Relocating Macro Assembler

It is more versatile than the ASM assembler with Level 1. It generates ROFs
(Relocatable Object Files) which then need to be linked using the RLINK linker
to create a memory module suitible for loading and running. It also supports
lots of other goodies not supported by ASM.

Zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29751 27-MAY 02:28 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29633)
     From: CIZZIJR      To: GENEDEAL (NR)

Gene,
 you want to adjust the number of lines in the vdu file, not the pvdu file.
 This should get your screen formats correct.

 I have to simply databases set up, one keeps track of vacation request for the
 people who report to me. The other keeps track of game cartridges that I clean
 for a video store in my area.  I hope, when I find time, to expand the database

for the vaction request so it looks up in a personal file database the senority
 date of the person, calculates their total vacation time, then reports the
 time available and the time remaining for vacation.

 Carmen

 P.S. Because of the limited amount of free time I have available, it is hard
 for me to get online with Delphi.  So expect delays in responses from me.
 Also the example included with sculptor is excellant.  Type it in and modify
 it, this will allow you to see what you can do and can't do with sculptor,
 along the way it becomes easier to work with sculptor.

-*-

29752 27-MAY 03:26 General Information
     Shell+
     From: BRIANWHITE   To: EDDIEKUNS

Eddie,

I don't know if you've gotten a reply to your Shell+ message yet.  I'm forced to

be a week between reading messages and posting replies, so if you've already
heard this from Kev or someone else, sorry!

As far as I can tell, the priority change won't work on anything that does disk
i/o as soon as it starts.  IOMan bumps up the priority of these proceses so they

get serviced faster, and restores the original priority when the task finishes.
It would see m that Shell+ resets the priority of the process (via a F$SPrior
call) while IOMan has made this change, so when the disk access finishes, IOMan
restores the original (before the Shell+ change) value.  What should have been
done is that Shell+ changes it s OWN priority, forks the process and then
restores its OWN priority.

And while we are on the subject of Shell+ and bugs, there are a few other
annoying things I'd like to point out to whomever might be listening.  Somebody
may even want to pass this message on to the authors of Shell+ because I don't
believe they can be f ound here on Delphi.

1)  If your prompt default includes the current path, Shell+ ALWAYS get's this
path upon during its initialization.  Very annoying with any program that calls
shell to execute each command (like make) because Shell+ spends a few seconds
getting the PWD e ach time it is called.  Remedy:  Only get the PWD on the first

time it needs to be displayed.

2)  There is no way to pass command line variables to shell scripts. Remedy:
Have Shell+ assign any parameters to shell variables %%0 to %%9 when starting
up.

3)  Shell+ refuses to start a process with less than 31 pages of memory.  Shell+

should check the optional "#nK" param against the value in the module header,
not against #31!  That way a process would still default to 8k, but you could
override this by forking it with an option of, say, "#2k".  Thus most of the
problems with this additional memory could be overcome.  And besides, why not
use 32 instead of 31?

4)  CHD (CD) commands always update the "last modified" date and time of that
directory.  My home-made nightly backup program (a Shell+ script) always backs
up every directory I changed to that day.  Remedy:  Only open a directory
(I$ChgDir) with modes o f "Read." or "Read.+Exec."  This works just as well as
including "Write."  There are no problems with writing to a directory you have
write permission to when the CHD is performed in this manner.  (The original
Shell also unneccessarily includes the "Wri te.")  This minor change also allows

other people with different user numbers to CHD to a directory of which have
public read access but not public write access.  Other users can read files, but

cannot write to that directory without public write.  This is how CHD/CHX was
meant to be used.  Note:  This goes for ALL programs, not just Shell+!!!

5)  One more addition to the set priority (^) character.  How about allowing a
relative priority such as "^+10" or "^-50".

6)  Shell+ needs the ability to escape any character for passing to the program
it forks.  For this I suggest the backslash ("\") character because it seems to
be the most common for other shells.  Any character directly following a
backslash, including another backslash, would be passed directly to the new
process without interpretation by Shell+

7)  Shell+ seems to go through the trouble of expanding lines even while
searching through the script as the result of a GOTO statement.  This caused an
error in one of my scripts that checked for a second hard drive.  Because it
wasn't there, errors occ urred expanding paths to that second drive while a GOTO

was skipping the whole routine.

8)  Allow a method of not echoing lines in a shell script.  The MS-Dos shell has

this in that any line preceeded by an asperand ("@") is not echoed to the
terminal.  Not that this is all that neccessary because as a default, echo is
off, where in the Mes sy-Dos world, it defaults to on.

9)  A history of the last few commands executed (like the UNIX cshell has) would

be very useful.  A "h" command to view the last 10 commands and the ability to
execute any of them with a line like "!14" to execute command number 14.  Of
course a line lik e "!14.c" would execute command #14 appending ".c" to its end.

The expanded line would them be stored as command #?? for later reference.  The
current command line number should also be able to be displayed in the current
prompt.

10)  A true alias ability would be nice.  Again, much like the unix command, it
should be something like "alias ls dir -e".  Then, whenever the user typed "ls",

the shell would expand it into "dir -e".  (EVERYTHING after the the alias name
is aliased to that name).


Maybe these changes could be included in the next release of Shell+ to further
improve one of the greatest improvements OS-9 has seen yet.

                                                           Brian

-*-

29758 27-MAY 11:58 General Information
     RE: Shell+ (Re: Msg 29752)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: BRIANWHITE (NR)

The UN*X alias command has been ported to OS9 Level 2 by Tim Koonce. It is in
our Utilities lib. I have it and it works quite well.

Other than that, you have great ideas about improvements to Shell+.

Zack

-*-

29762 27-MAY 13:02 General Information
     RE: Shell+ (Re: Msg 29752)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BRIANWHITE (NR)

I agree with most of your comments.  But.

No, NO, *NO* UNIX-style history, PLEASE!  It has only a few redeeming values:
   !more          to rerun the most recent command beginning with 'more'
   !-5            execute the 5th most recent command

But that's IT!  If you want to rerun a command with a new file, UNIX-style
history is woefully inadaquite.  Yes, it can be done if you can remember the
arcane syntax!

I propose that any new shell use a more VMS-style history mechanism.  You hit
the up-arrow to get the previous command, and can then edit that command as you
wish, or hit another up-arrow to get the command before that... When I worked a
couple summers on MSDOS <blech> machines, I found this wonder PD program which
installed this kind of command-line editing.  It got to where I couldn't work
without it!  I wouldn't mind having both available, but without VMS-style
history, I'm going to be forced to write my own shell from scratch.  (On which
case I'll wait for the MM/1 and write it to run on that, as it will be a while
before I have the time.)

You probably hadn't guessed that I feel strongly about this!  :)  I just find
UNIX command-line history clumsy and arcane, and the shell interface is about
the most important in the entire machine.

                          Eddie

-*-

29769 27-MAY 16:02 General Information
     RE: Shell+ (Re: Msg 29762)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: EDDIEKUNS (NR)

I agree with you on the command line history. Basically what we need is the same

kind of command line editing Kevin's SCF patch gives us, with the ability to go
back more than just one command. A new internal shell command which is analogous

to the VMS RECALL command would also be nice. In case you weren't aware, Ron
Lammardo has put some command line history code in a new version of Shell+, but
it hasn't been released yet, cuz it was intended to be part of the "Level 2
Upgrade".

Zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29753 27-MAY 03:27 General Information
     6551 + 4in1
     From: BRIANWHITE   To: DISTO (NR)

Tony,

Just thought I'd let you know that I finally got around to replacing the 6551 in

my 4in1 and now it seems to work just perfectly.  Let's see, it's only been 1
year since I bought your beautiful card, during which I've only blown the 5v
regulator, broken a few traces, and replaced the rs232 jack...  Do you think
warranty would reimberse me for the 6551???  I didn't think so.  <smile>

                                                           Brian

-*-

29754 27-MAY 03:27 General Information
      Stuff for Sale
     From: BRIANWHITE   To: ALL

       FFFFF    OOO    RRRR             SSSS    AAA    L       EEEEE
       F       O   O   R   R           S       A   A   L       E
       FFF     O   O   RRRR             SSS    AAAAA   L       EEEE
       F       O   O   R   R               S   A   A   L       E
       F        OOO    R   R           SSSS    A   A   LLLLL   EEEEE

It's moving time, so here's a bunch of stuff that I just can't aford to move
around any more.  (Moving every 4 months gets expensive.)  Rather than just
throwing it out, I thought I'd see if anyone else was interested in it.  All
things are in good condi tion.  I don't want any specific amount for anything.
I'll take best offer.

                                           Brian C. White
                                           ( BRIANWHITE )


 Hardware:
 ---------
 Color Computer 1 (64k, ECB 1.1, improved keyboard)
 Multi-Pak Interface (modified for CoCo-3)
 Disto Super Controller I  (with Real Time Clock and Parallel Port)
 J & M JFD-CP Disk Controller  (with Parallel Printer Port)
 Tandy Floppy Drive Controller
 FD501 Double Floppy Disk Drive  (single sided, 40 tracks)
 TRS-80 Modem I  (Direct Conect, 300 baud)
 TRS-80 Telephone Interface II  (Acoustic Coupler, 300 baud)
 2x CoCo 1 Chicklet keyboard

 OS-9 Level II Software:
 -----------------------
 OS-9 Level II
 Deskmate 3

 OS-9 Level I Software:
 ----------------------
 2x OS-9 Level I
 Deskmate
 Basic09
 Hi-Res Screen Dump Utilities
 Micro Illustrator

 RS-Dos Software (on disk):
 --------------------------
 Color Disk Edtasm
 Color Disk Scripsit
 Cash Budget Management
 Trivia Fever
 Flightsim I
 Ghana Bwana
 The Sands of Egypt
 W3IWI Orbit Prediction Program  (tape)

 Program Paks:
 -------------
 Chess
 Project Nebula
 Mega-Bug
 Galactic Attack
 Space Assault
 Bustout
 Bedlam
 Cartridge Edtasm+
 Cartridge Spectaculator
 Art Gallery

 Books/Magazines:
 ----------------
 The Complete Rainbow Guide to OS-9
 The Official BASIC09 Tour Guide
 The Complete Rainbow Guide to OS-9 Level II
 TRS-80 Color Computer Programs
 TRS-80 Color Computer Space Adventures
 Color Computer Graphics
 TRS-80 Color Computer & MC-10 Programs
 TRS-80 Color Computer Programmer's HandBook
 Lots of back issues of Hot CoCo & TRS-80 Microcomputer News
 The RAINBOW (02/86 -> Present)
 80-Micro Magazines (various, most with CoCo stuff)


(All software comes with original disks and manuals)

-*-

29755 27-MAY 10:49 General Information
     RE:  Stuff for Sale (Re: Msg 29754)
     From: MPASSER      To: BRIANWHITE (NR)

How much do you want for one of those chiclet keyboards?  I need a replacement
for my kids' Coco I.
Mike Passer

-*-

29763 27-MAY 13:04 General Information
     RE:  Stuff for Sale (Re: Msg 29754)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BRIANWHITE (NR)

Wow... one might think you're leaving the CoCo world!  Hopefully that's not
true?

                       Eddie

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29759 27-MAY 12:20 Telcom
     RE: RiBBStrek (Re: Msg 29558)
     From: EASYSINGLES  To: WAYNELAIRD (NR)

Thanks for the reply, Wayne. I thought that might be the problem but was hoping
it would work on any BBS program. I already have the BBS list and my number is
one of them. The listing for CoCoMotion has my number. CoCoMotion was at my
number for about 2 months and is now at 916-392-COCO. I call my BBS "Edgar". I
named it that after seeing the movie "Electric Dreams". The computer in the
movie, named Edgar, took over the mans life and since I've gotten into OS9, my
computer has done the same. I felt the name was appropriate. Take a look
sometime. Like anything unders OS9, it is always changing and growing. Edgar is
at 916-392-8080 8-N-1 3/12/24 24 hrs. Bob Dorrell


-*-

29764 27-MAY 13:26 Telcom
     RE: list your bbs's (Re: Msg 29560)
     From: EASYSINGLES  To: WAYNELAIRD (NR)

My BBS is called, Edgar Phone 916-392-8080 baud 300/1200/2400 parameters
8/NONE/1 24 hours a day Support for RSDOS and OS9 Run under OS9 level 2 Quirks,
after you connect, You must hit <ENTER> then wait 2 seconds. if you get no
responce, hit <ENTER> again. This may be required as many as 4 or 5 times. The
TSMON is adjusting its baud rate.


-*-

29765 27-MAY 15:19 General Information
     mpi failure
     From: TEDJAEGER    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Zack, I think I just understood something! About the BLOB, its not just a
problem that would cause a boot failure. It could make access to devices once
booted unreliable or impossible? Oh, another question. When Radio Shack went
from CoCo 1 to CoCo 2 they dropped the 12 volt usage. Is it possible that when
Radio Shack went from the old to the new MPI they dropped 12 volts and my RS HD
interface requires 12 volts. Thats an easy explanation (probably too easy) for
my hard drive failure with only the newer MPI. Bests, Ted

-*-

29768 27-MAY 15:57 General Information
     RE: mpi failure (Re: Msg 29765)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: TEDJAEGER (NR)

Your understanding of the BLOB is correct, it only introduces unpredicatable
problems when accessing (mostly) floppy drives, most notably, the inability to
"hard" (physically) format a diskette.

Not sure about the 12V question, since I just got into CoCoing in the last few
years and I don't have service manuals to the various flavors of MPIs. Maybe
Marty, Bruce Isted or Kevin Darling can comment?

Zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29766 27-MAY 15:30 General Information
     mpi failure
     From: TEDJAEGER    To: TIMKOONCE (NR)

Tim, I promised I let you know whether or not the upgrade of my MPI to work with

CoCo 3 fixed my HD boot up problem. Well, here is my current situation: I think
I really need some expert advise! Off and on for about 6 months I have been
trying to get my CoCo in a AT case. The hangup has been replacing my old (large)

MPI with another product. I have tried two Slot Paks but both failed after a
couple of hours of use. More recently I have acquired a small MPI. While the
Slot Pak would switch the SCS line appropriately for my RS HD interface and RS
floppy controller, the small MPI that I have now will not allow me to boot my
hard drive. I'm really puzzled because my old (large) MPI works fine with
exactly the same cards installed and using the same boot disk. I just paid dear
Tandy $30.00 to upgrade my newer (small) MPI for CoCo 3 use bu that did not
solve the problem. Here are my efforts to diagnose: --When I first got the MPI
it would not boot my HD although it would boot an all floppy os9 system.
Suspecting slot #3 (where the RS HD interface must go) might be bad, I stuck a
game cartridge in it and it worked fine. So I decided to do the satellite
upgrade figuring maybe it really was necessary with a RS HD interface. --When
the upgraded MPI would not work, I started wondering about the BLOB. I shortened

my HD cable (which was about 4 feet long) to 18 inches. No help. Then I made a
new boot disk with /h0 reconfigured as /hd (thanks, Zack). I thought this would
get me around any BLOB centered boot up problem and then I could access the HD
as /hd. I confirmed that this worked with my old (large) MPI. I inserted the new

(small) MPI and the systeiMs/ted but any attempt to access the HD produces
error 240 - unit error. --Next, I tried booting a floppy os9 system with the
floppy controller in slot #3 and the HD interface out of the system. When I
selected slot #3 with the switch on the front of the MPI case, this worked. So
next I left the floppy controller in slot #3, used the switch to select slot #4,

poked 65407, 34 to software select slot #3, did an EXEC &HC000, to bring up DISK

BASIC, and booted a floppy OS9 system OK. Figured this meant that the MPI can
software select slot #3 as is must do when the OS9 hard drive system boots. --
Finally, for what it is worth, I booted the floppy system with the controller in

slot #4 and my RS232 card in slot 1 and successsfully ran SuperComm. I gues this

means the interrupts are working.

The other observation I can share is that there does seem to be some elctrical
difference between my old and new MPI because, at power up, this happens. My HD
and two floppies are mounted in an AT case and powered by an AT supply. My CoCo
and MPI are on my desk and powered by their own supplies. My power up process is

to first turn on the AT power supply and let the HD come up to speed, then turn
on the MPI and CoCo by flipping the switch on a six-outlet power bar. With the
newer MPI, when I turn on the AT supply the access light on /d1 glows
continuously, until I turn on the MPI and CoCo power. This does not happen with
the old MPI installed.

My brain is broke and I really want to put all of this stuff in my AT case. Any
ideas as to what is going on? What is error 240 suppose to mean?

Thanks, TedJaeger P.S. Having ruminated a couple of days, could it be that my HD

interface requires 12 volts and that is not supplied by the newer MPI but is
supplied by the older?

-*-

29767 27-MAY 15:49 Programmers Den
     Debug
     From: THEFERRET    To: ALL

Is there any way to make it more Friendly, or is there another debugger (
preferrably P.D.) somewhere?  I miss ED/TASM's debug, with step-through, and
printing what command you're on.  Referring back to a print-out is such a pain
  P.B.

-*-

29770 27-MAY 16:45 General Information
     RE: TSWORD_1 (Re: Msg 29706)
     From: VE3DAC       To: OS9UGVP (NR)

Thanks for the explanation. I think I may be the only TSWord user so Dale is
looking at a pretty small market, grin. BCNU Merv

-*-

29771 27-MAY 16:47 Patches
     RE: VI (Re: Msg 29673)
     From: VE3DAC       To: RICKADAMS (NR)

OK, then I'll delete VIPars too. It should save a second on startup. In talking
about modpatch, I was refering to changing the two things left in VIPars, Tabs
and TabMode. I assume each only requires a one byte patch. The T and L commands
seem OK in my version of VI. Merv

-*-

29772 27-MAY 18:16 General Information
     Sale
     From: ERIKS        To: ALL

I have to sell my COCO 3 now because I need the money.I have a 512k COCO 3,CM8
monitor,FD502 disk drive,1200 baud modem,deluxe joystick and mouse and many
other things.I wll sell for $350 or best offer.IF you are interested at all make

me an offer and if I do not get a better one I will sell it to you.Send EMAIL to

ERIKS

                        Erik

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 