
29550 18-MAY 22:45 Programmers Den
     RE: RMA/RLink boo-boo. (Re: Msg 29497)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: TIMKOONCE

A tiny correction -- C programmers should keep their DP size under 127 bytes.
Remember that cstart.r (?) reserves the very first DP byte to prevent the
variables from ever having an address of NULL.

Too bad RMA doesn't generate files with more info on internal references. If it
did, then Rlink could correct this problem by adding the necessary bytes (ie:
turning 8-bit offsets to 16-bit offsets) and then correcting all internal
references.

                    Eddie

-*-

29553 18-MAY 23:07 Programmers Den
     RE: RMA/RLink boo-boo. (Re: Msg 29533)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: GREGL

I think it's safe for RLink to understand that any 8-bit signed reference to a
DP variable who's address is >= 0x80 is wrong.  Yes, this would increase code
size, but not by THAT much I don t think unless you try to correct the problem
in RLink.

             Eddie

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29551 18-MAY 23:01 General Information
     RE: Auto-Follow Mouse (Re: Msg 29522)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: DENNYSKALA

Putting 'control -e' into your startup does NOT turn on the autofollow mouse.
Yes, the a.f. mouse if expensive in terms of CPU processing time. But it is only

turned on when a process makes the system call to turn it on.

             Eddie

-*-

29552 18-MAY 23:05 General Information
     RE: Help! My computer hated me! (Re: Msg 29532)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: XLIONX

Yes, the Glenside club meets in the library close to 64 (North Ave).  There are
two clubs, one of which is "CoCo" and the other is specifically OS-9. The CoCo
club meets the 2nd Thurs of each month and the OS-9 club meets the 4th Thurs of
each month.

                  Eddie

-*-

29554 18-MAY 23:41 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29505)
     From: NES          To: OS9UGPRES

I dont get an error when I use os9gen, but the new disk will give me a boot
failed after its almost finnished loading the boot file. ????? Thanx for the
help.... NES

-*-

29565 19-MAY 11:01 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29554)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: NES

Then you don't have your boot disk set up right. Do you have CMDS/Shell there?
Is it set for execute? Do you boot in a window device? If so, is there a
CMDS/grfdrv there and set for execute? Do you boot to your hard drive? If so,
the same questions as above, except for your hard drive and not the floppy.

Zack

-*-

29597 20-MAY 22:44 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29565)
     From: NES          To: ZACKSESSIONS

Zak, I have been useing a floppy to boot the hard drive. all I have on my hard
drive boot disk is os9boot.  I do have GRFDRV in the harddrive's
 CMDS/GRFDRV.  My origonal boot disk work's fine but now find that the disk that

I made my first boot disk will not make another boot disk??? I am try to boot
with a window as a term I have VGDINT and WININT in the boot file could that
cause truble? NES


-*-

29600 20-MAY 22:55 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29597)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: NES

It could be. See, Init says that your boot device will be /d0. CC3Go says that
your boot window will be /TERM. You apparently have patched that to be
/W<something>. This means that device /d0 MUST have a CMDS/grfdrv available at
boot time. Does this help?

Zack

-*-

29611 21-MAY 03:04 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29597)
     From: TIMKOONCE    To: NES

The problem is that, the way Init and CC3Go are set up, you have the following
odd situation:
  IF your /term is a VDG device, then GrfDrv will get loaded from the hard disk,

  OTHERWISE /term is a window device, then GrfDrv will get loaded from the
floppy.

The "easy" patch for this is to look into the INIT module, and change /D0 to
/DD.  I would also change the /H0 strings in CC3Go to /DD.  This way, GrfDrv
will always get loaded from /DD, which I presume in your case is the hard drive.

  Of course, Init and CC3Go should have been set up to use /DD in the first
place.... <sigh>
                          - Tim Koonce

-*-

29620 21-MAY 20:01 Programmers Den
     RE: os9gen trouble (Re: Msg 29611)
     From: NES          To: TIMKOONCE (NR)

Thanx for the reply, Zacsession's talk me thur fixing the INIT mode. but Thanx
anyway for your help. NES

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29555 18-MAY 23:46 Applications
     RE: Gravity Studio (Re: Msg 29546)
     From: NES          To: EARLROB

Rob, I left a message to rainbow and found out the following: Make the check out

to:  Gravity Studio

send it to: Gravity Studio
            PO BOX 791
            Belton, TX 76513-791

also the program is call'ed Planet Engine. NES   (Eric Stringer)


-*-

29584 20-MAY 13:35 Applications
     RE: Gravity Studio (Re: Msg 29555)
     From: EARLROB      To: NES

     Thanks for the info.  I'm going to order it tomorrow!
               Rob


-*-

29598 20-MAY 22:45 Applications
     RE: Gravity Studio (Re: Msg 29584)
     From: NES          To: EARLROB (NR)

Yea I put mine in the mail Friday 18. let you know what I think of it. NES

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29556 19-MAY 00:26 General Information
     Questions
     From: KENHALTER    To: ALL

 Well you asked for questions, so......... First of all, I was wondering what is

included with the os9 LII development system? Secondly, it is said that there is

no such animal as a term program for os9 that uses the serial port. Of course I
can see why you couldn't run more than 1 process at a time while using the port
but it should be possible at 300 baud at least shouldn't it?
 Thirdly, would a modem pak work (for now) since they're only $10 bucks It would

be worth getting one, at least on a disposable basis. And would I use it by
writing a term program (or dloading one) that simply opens a path to it and
treats it as a terminal?
 My Fourth question is, why are 68k based machines so darned expensive?! You can

get a 386sx system for a LOT less than a similarly equipt Mac or Amiga. Then,
you might spend another huge chunk of dough to make the dang thing compatible
with the 386.
 The 386 can multi task, has virtual mem, killer graphics, etc. what's the
story.
 Last of all, how do you pass info from 1 ml module to another? With a fork
system call maybe?
 Are there any good examples handy in the dbase?
 So far, I really enjoy level 2 with it's 80 col screens and windows. a
lonnnngggg time ago, I bought level 1 at a 1/2 price radio shack sale but with
it's 80 column style text output on a 32 column screen, 64k total mem (that
disappeared so fast it would make your head spin), and the clumsiest
editor/assembler/debug in the world, it took me about 1 week to totally lose
interest.
 I'm sure glad that I hung on to it though for the assembler at least. Clumsy
but usable. I got along fine with rsdos without any of the unravelled series
type books, but I think if there were on available for os9, I'd grab it.
      Well, That's enough for now.....
   Any help/ comments will be appreciated.
         Ken Halter


    Title: Questions... Page 1 of 10 bazillion.<ha>

-*-

29566 19-MAY 11:08 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29556)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: KENHALTER

I'll answer your first question, and let others field the rest. The Dev Pack
includes:

An interactive debugger (useful only for RMA programmers)
A screen editor (useless in my opinion, but if you don't have one ..)
RMA Assembler
RLINK Linker
cgfx.l C Graphics Library (documented in Multi-Vue manual)
sys.l (useful for RMA programmars)
Several C header files (*.h files) needed by cgfx.l
A MAKE utility
A Touch utility
Properly written Ramdisk driver and device modules
Twelve additional OS9 commands not included with Level 2
  BINEX
  DUMP
  EXBIN
  LOGIN
  MODPATCH
  MON
  MONTYPE
  PARK
  SAVE
  TEE
  TSMON
  VERIFY
That's it!

As I typed that list I noticed modpatch and montype, these are with Level 2, not

exactly sure why there are here also.

Zack

-*-

29572 19-MAY 21:48 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29556)
     From: TIMKOONCE    To: KENHALTER

  Here's some insight into your questions:

1) Serial port and OS9.
    The reason that RSDOS programs can get away with this is that they can take
over the entire machine and set up things to do it as easily as possible.  Under

OS9, this isn't really possible.  Under OS9, there is a fair amount of overhead
in processing any interrupt (first, you have to switch to the system memory map,

then call the system interrupt handler which searches through a table to find
out which interrupt it was, then calls the specific interrupt handler which does

it's stuff). This overhead really kills you when you're trying to do bit-banger
work where you need 1000 interrupts per second (for 300 baud!!), or much more
than that for higher baud rates.
    Some people _have_ managed to get it working, but it is _very_ quirky, and
has a lot of problems due to the kernel patching that they have had to do to get

it to work.

2) Modem pak
    The modem pak is essentially an RS232 pak with built-in modem. It works very

well under OS9.  You need to hack it a bit to get it to work without a
Multi-Pak, but many people on here can help you with that.

3) 386 vs. 68000.
    The 386 machines are benefitting from a massive market, and a lot of really
cheaply designed hardware.
    From what I've heard, the 386 _does_ have a tolerable architecture, but if
you actually want to write stuff that other people might use, you still have to
aim it at the 286 (yuck!).
    Sure, the 386 multitasks, but have you priced the operating systems that do
it?  OS/2 is a monster, OS9000 is still very pricey, which basically leaves the
multitasking MSDOS emulators (ugh!), or the Unix variants (which I think are too

clumsy for personal use).
    The 68000 was well-designed to begin with, so that there is really
remarkably little difference between the 68000 and the 68030 besides speed.
    When you compare cheap 386 machines to Macs and Amigas, that's like
comparing a backyard mechanics fixed-up VW Bug to a BMW. Sure, the VW might be
able to do everything the BMW can now, but which one do _you_ want to still own
in 10 years?

        - Tim Koonce

-*-

29592 20-MAY 17:17 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29572)
     From: KENHALTER    To: TIMKOONCE

 Thanks for the reply Tim. I'll study it awhile an get back to you.
      Thanks again. Ken Halter

-*-

29642 22-MAY 14:06 General Information
     RE: Questions (Re: Msg 29592)
     From: RRIES        To: KENHALTER (NR)

I'VE BEEN AWAY FROM MY MACHINE FOR A WHILE(I'M MOVING, AND GETTING MARRIED), BUT

IF I REMEMBER RIGHT, XTERM MAY WORK WITH THE SE RIAL PORT. I REMEMBER
USING/TRYING TO USE IT TO RUN A ROCKWELL AIM-65 EPROM PROGRAMMER A WHILE BACK.
I'LL LOOK INTO IT AND GET BACK TO YOU BY THE WEEKEND. RRIES (P.S.- PLEASE EXCUSE

THE CAPS- I'M USING A COCO2 WITH COMPAC !!) AT WORK.)

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29557 19-MAY 01:00 Telcom
     RE: tel (Re: Msg 29416)
     From: WAYNELAIRD   To: AEJ

hey aej- I got you on my bbs list, you're chip to chip, right? check out the
bigger list under the name COCOS9ER, in the telecom section. If you have any
MORE Canadian boards, I'd sure like to list 'em. best regards, Wayne Laird-
COCOS9ER

-*-

29563 19-MAY 06:40 Telcom
     RE: tel (Re: Msg 29557)
     From: AEJ          To: WAYNELAIRD (NR)

Hello there, yes I am CHIP to CHIP...now running under RCIS software. The only
COCO BBS (other than mine) in the area is Color Nova sysop John Cleveland
Liverpool, Nova Scotia 902-634-3095 24 hours/300-1200 baud running OS9...PBBS

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29558 19-MAY 01:08 Telcom
     RE: RiBBStrek (Re: Msg 29542)
     From: WAYNELAIRD   To: EASYSINGLES (NR)

hi E. the problem is that the file RibbsTrek is to be used on a RiBBS bullentin
board. you have to be running the bbs before it'll work. but it was made by San
Diego's own Shawn Driscoll. if you want to check with him some more. try ocean
beach bbs @ 1-619-2244878 and leave him e-mail. " and now a word from our
sponser..." you can get that bbs number with about 189 others from the file "
COCOS9ER " here in the telcom section. Might still be in the new uploads too.
best, wayne

-*-

29559 19-MAY 01:10 General Information
     TSWORD_1
     From: VE3DAC       To: OS9UGVP (NR)

Well now that you helped put the above package back on the in-use shelf, perhaps

you or someone else could help with the next near problem. When Vshell starts it

takes 41 pages of system memory. Is this something to do with its Lev 1 heritage

and is there anything I can do to make it work like a Lev 2 Program ? The header

looks pretty normal so it must be something not obvious to the likes of me. Merv

-*-

29560 19-MAY 01:19 Telcom
     list your bbs's
     From: WAYNELAIRD   To: ALL SYSOPS (NR)

to all sysops, some of you may have seen my bbs list for both OS9 and decb'ers
I'd like to list your bbs on the next bbs list coming out soon. If you don't
have a copy, it's availible ethier in the new uploads section or the telecom
section. It's a wonderful file for your callers who want to 'travel' and  meet
new people and places, yourself included. You should check to see if you're on
the list but I'll be happy to add you on if you're not.
                                      best regards, ps the title and key word is

COCOS9ER                Wayne

-*-

29561 19-MAY 02:12 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29549)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: GREGL

Okay, that means that I have to use RSOS9 on PAK so that I can use PAK on OSTERM

so that I can use RSOS9 on OSTERM so that I can xfer the files via OS9 Level 2
to an OS9 formatted disk...right?
  I'm beginning to have second thoughts about this *ordeal*, ya know? Bill

-*-

29567 19-MAY 16:31 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29561)
     From: TRIX         To: BILLBEISSERT

Ok, here's the deal...
 To get OSTerm from RS-DOS to OS-9 you're gonna need:
            1) An RS-DOS terminal (I would assume that's what you're using)
            2) OS-9 Level II (That's a given)
            3) RSOS9
            4) Pak
            5) The OSTerm.pak file itself (Don't remember the exact name)

First, you download the OSTerm file, RSOS9, and pak with the RS-DOS term.  Then
you run RSOS9 on pak and the OSTerm file to put an OS-9 Directory on the
RS-DOS disk.  Next you have to start copying on to, OS-9 disks.  You'll need
to put pak in your execution directory (with the 'e' attribute set) and put
the OSTerm file on a blank OS-9 disk.  Next you run pak on the OSTerm file to
un-compress it on the blank disk.  Lastly you put the OSTerm files themselves
on whatever disk you want them to live.  <whew!>  Wasn't that fun?  <grin>

Hope it helps,
-John.

-*-

29568 19-MAY 18:50 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29567)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: TRIX

Got it...but I think I've made an initial mistake by downloading OSTERM onto a
40 track DOS...RSOS9 gives me an error. Guess I'll have to download it onto a 35

track format or copy the file over to a 35 track disk. It's either that or some
sort of conflict with ADOS3. Now, at least, I have something to do here on a
rainy day in Illinois. Thanks. Bill

-*-

29569 19-MAY 20:23 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29561)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BILLBEISSERT

Yeah -- this whole thing is a process of bootstrapping!

What I did is use a program (RSDOS2OS9.BAS?) to turn an RSDOS formatted disk
into an OS-9 formatted disk, and I put everything I needed on the disk so I
could do it in one step.  So...

Download PAK, the terminal program of your choice, and ???.BAS (it's in the
general database here, I believe).  Put them on an RSDOS formatted disk.  Run
the .BAS program.  Now boot up OS-9 and read both files from the disk.  Use
Pak/Ar on the terminal program of your choice.

You're set!

                           Eddie

-*-

29571 19-MAY 20:39 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29568)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BILLBEISSERT

Well, you could always make the drive to the local CoCo club which meets at the
Glenside library just off Rt 64 (North Ave).  Or you could drop by my house
(Aurora) and I could give you a copy of OSTerm or I could download the newest
version for you.  (Hehehe -- and I could show off KBCom :) It's probably a long
drive, but it may take less time than the bootstrapping process!

If you're interested in dropping by, give me a call at 1-708-820-3943.  If that
number's busy (then I'm on Delphi :) then call 820-3953 if it's before 10pm.
(Technically that's my roommate's line, but we share.)

We're thinking of forming another CoCo club farther west than the Glenside club
for those (like yourself) quite a ways out.  Too bad the Elgin club went
under...

                     Eddie

-*-

29581 20-MAY 12:21 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29571)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: EDDIEKUNS

Well, Eddie, I've given up on OSTERM at this end. Two downloads and each time I
use RSOS9.BAS on the file I get an FC error in line 106. RSOS9 worked fine on
PAK so at least I have that for future use.

  I ordered WIZ a couple of days ago and it should be here this week so maybe
I'll have a term program for OS9 after all. Then maybe I'll give OSTERM another
try (being able to avoid using RSOS9) and compare the two programs. I intend to
use it/them on Packet and RTTY. It will be interesting to see how they compare
to the other ML term programs I am using at present...the whole idea being to
have the term program on Packet/RTTY, a word processor and possibly a second
term program on the modem...using windows. Just getting my feet "damp" with OS9
and am enjoying the multi-tasking (sure beats having to reload programs).

I wasn't aware that the Elgin club went under. I check into the Pinball Haven
regularly, know Jeff Chapin and Tony Podraza and talk to Ed Hathaway from time
to time but no one has mentioned the club going under. They just had a meeting
last month at Aunt Mary's (saw it posted on the BBS) but who knows. I have to
get hold of Tony to have my ADOS3 reburnt (minor changes) so I'll find out then
if the club's still going.

BTW, the Monitoring Post LLBBS is back up and running again. (708) 289-0014 8N1
1200 baud (possibly 300 and 2400, too) if you are involved with ham radio and
such. Not too many files on the board a couple of weeks ago but there may be
some there by now. They only want text files posted from what I understand.

  Thanks for the kind offer and if I get REAL desparate for OSTERM I may take
you up on the invitation (on a nice day/night so I can get the bike out).

BCNU --- Bill


-*-

29585 20-MAY 13:39 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29581)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: BILLBEISSERT

The problem you're encountering with RSOS9.BAS may be that osterm.ar is too
large of a file. RSOS9.BAS had a bug/feature which caused problems with files
over a certain size. When I first go into OS9, I got my first OS9 term program
the same way you are attempting it, but I was getting Supercomm. Maybe
supercomm.ar was smaller? Anyway, if you want to play around with it, you could
try downloading supercomm, converting it over, the use Supercomm to download
OSTerm directly to OS9.

Zack

-*-

29587 20-MAY 14:53 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29581)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BILLBEISSERT

I believe the FC error is because the OSTerm file is so large.  The program to
turn an RSDOS formatted disk into an OS-9 formatted disk chokes on large files.
(The one I used at least.)

You may want to try download RSDOS.ar (and 'ar' if you haven't already) and
transfer those to OS-9 (Oh -- you'll need IPatch).  With RSDOS, you can transfer

any file between OS-9 and DECB formatted disks.  I believe you need two drives
to use  it ho.

              Eddie

-*-

29593 20-MAY 19:03 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29561)
     From: GREGL        To: BILLBEISSERT

Bill,

    It's not that bad. You can simply download PAK and OSTERM, put them onto a
blank disk and run RS2OS9 on that disk. Once that's done, copy those two files
onto an OS-9 disk and type PAK -X OSTERM.

    -- Greg

-*-

29607 21-MAY 01:36 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29581)
     From: OS9UGPRES    To: BILLBEISSERT

Hi Bill... I thought I'd uploaded a correction to RSOS9 a long time ago which
got rid of that FC error. If not, will someone grab that off CIS and post it
here?

But I see you're getting Wiz. That should fix you up. Keep at it! You've gotten
pretty far already. best - kev

-*-

29610 21-MAY 02:59 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29581)
     From: TIMKOONCE    To: BILLBEISSERT

As several people have mentioned, your problem is probably that RSOS9 can only
handle files up to 32k.  Newer versions of this program get around this problem,

but probably the easiest way around it is to get a smaller term program (XCom9
is very small, Supercomm, JTerm, Telstar may be small enough), move that over to

OS9, and then use that to download OSTerm, if you like.
    Another alternative is to get IPATCH, RSDOS, and the CC3DISK ipatch file
that will allow you to transfer files from the OS9 side.  The RSDOS program to
read/write RSDOS disks doesn't have the 32k limitation that early forms of RSOS9

had.
                         Hope this helps,
                               Tim Koonce

-*-

29624 21-MAY 22:44 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29607)
     From: GREGL        To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

Kevin,

    The patch for RS2OS9.BAS has been included in the program, unless something
went sour. I'll have to go double check it just to make sure that the
modification is in place.

    -- Greg

-*-

29637 22-MAY 00:59 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29610)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: ALL

  I sure appreciate all the help, advice and suggestions from you gentlemen but
I think that I will wait until WIZ arrives before I do any more downloads of OS9

files (once bitten, twice shy?) just to avoid having to bother you with my
questions. I have d'loaded PAK, AR and RSOS9 for future use and that makes me
*lethal* beyond my capabilities with OS9 to date. Not having a hard-drive seems
to be a limiting factor to me and I have a bunch of organizing to do here so
that I don't wind up with a bunch of disks with files scattered randomly on
them; I don't want to get ahead of myself. I still have to "sift" through all my

Rainbow On Disk files to see what I have been missing/ignoring.
  I got the big OK on the purchase of the Kenneth-Leigh Enterprises machine as
soon as it is available on the market, that's why I'm finally getting into OS9.
The Coco3 won't be ignored, though. Heck, I still use my TRS-80 Model 1 for some

programs; it number-crunches a bit faster than the Coco's will. 'Ever hear of
Thomas Jefferson Beale and try to decipher his codes?

Bill

-*-

29638 22-MAY 01:12 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29637)
     From: THEFERRET    To: BILLBEISSERT

As I understand it, you already HAVE downloaded osterm succcessfully, but rsdos
't have to re-download it.  Here's what you do

Notice what variable causes the error in line 109.  Then backtrack to where it
get'Ss it'Ss value assigned.  It should be a ling with either
<variable>=mid$((DSKI$0,xx,xx),xx,xx) or some variable in place of DSKI$, that
got it'S value from DSKI$.

I know this sounds complicated, but really, it isn't .  Finding the assignment
is the hard part.   Then , once you find the culprite, all you have to do is
make the mid$ statement start one earlier  i.e. mid$(a$,16,2) becomes mid$(a$,
15,3)

Sorry I can't be more specific, but the prog is buried somewherere. If you still

can't fix it this way, I'll go dig for it. BTW, OSterm is handy, because it is
the only way to get ymodem batch up/downloades.

alternately, (I think this is what I did), you can put in a single line to check

if the size of file is larger than 65535.  if it is, add 65536 to the file size
varible.  This is for some reason easier. Good luck Philip

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29562 19-MAY 02:17 General Information
     ROBOT ODYESSY I
     From: WAYNELAIRD   To: ALL

to all, just started to work with the game Robot Odyssey. Neat game by Tandy.
But I need help with my logic planning. Is there or does anyone have a text file

for some of the chips that the robots use? The book is helpful with the basics
but I need more experiance and help. thanks,
                                                      Wayne

-*-

29564 19-MAY 10:26 General Information
     Rookie help
     From: BANDMAN      To: ALL

HELLO, EVERYONE!

 I'm just getting started with OS-9 lvl 2, and am getting around (so far!)
pretty well! But there's one quetion I have:

I am currently on-line with Autoterm under BASIC. Is it possible to D-load OS-9
files this way, or must I be under OS-9? (I have no OS-9 terminal yet). What do
I need to do? (please pardon my ignorance - this is probably only the first of
MANY questions!) Thanks for the help!!!!

Gary <BANDMAN> McCarty


-*-

29570 19-MAY 20:32 General Information
     RE: Rookie help (Re: Msg 29564)
     From: EDDIEKUNS    To: BANDMAN

I just sent a message detailing how to do this!  <Grin>  (About one minute ago.
No, you didn't miss it!)  I'm in a verbose mood today, so....

Look in the general information database for an RSDOS basic program.  I forget
it's name, but it's something like RSDOS2OS9.BAS.  Download this program and
then whatever you want to transfer to OS-9.  Run this program on the RSDOS
formatted disk -- it produces a disk that's more-or-less OS-9 formatted (but has

problems with huge files).  Now boot up OS-9 and copy the files from this disk
to where you want them to live.

A program you want to have is called RSDOS.ar (so you'll need the 'ar' archive
program to de-archive it).  This is an OS-9 utility that copies files to and
from RSDOS-formatted disks.  You'll need to make a new boot disk to use this
utility tho, and you'll need the IPatch utility to do so.  Steps:  1) Download
IPatch and AR and RSDOS.ar.
             2) Dearchive everything.
             3) Read the directions that come with RSDOS.ar
             4) Following the directions, run IPatch to create a new
                enhanced CC3Disk driver.
             5) Replace your current CC3Disk driver with this enhanced
                one.  Many ways:  EZGen, os9gen, config.  If you need
                help here, ask.

Oh -- a sidenote.  If you're currently using the Disto SC-II CC3Disk, then you
don't need to replace it with the enhanced Tandy CC3Disk.  In that case, just
download RSDos.ar (and ar) and use it!

                       Eddie

-*-

29588 20-MAY 15:29 General Information
     RE: Rookie help (Re: Msg 29570)
     From: BANDMAN      To: EDDIEKUNS

Thanks, Eddie! I will make a hardcopy of your letter and go from there!
Appreciate your help! (You will prob'ly hear from me again!)

Gary >BANDMAN< McCarty

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29573 20-MAY 00:08 General Information
     RE: smartwatch help! (Re: Msg 29472)
     From: RICKLT       To: ARTFLEXSER

 Thanks for your input Art, But I did install the smartwatch under the Rom with
pins 1,2,27 & 28 hanging off the ends.  I also connected pin 28 to 5 volts DC I
also made sure to install the rom chip back in line with the 24 pin socket.
 I am using a pin out of an old wire wrap socket to hook to pin 28 of the smart
watch, This is connected to a 5 volt source on controller.  Thanks again for
your input.

Ricklt (Rick Tackett)

-*-

29578 20-MAY 02:18 General Information
     RE: smartwatch help! (Re: Msg 29573)
     From: ARTFLEXSER   To: RICKLT

Sounds like you did everything right there.  My next suspicion would be that the

SmartWatch/ROM piggyback is being dislodged slightly on account of the extra
height when you insert the disk controller.  This is particularly likely if you
are inserting it into a Multipak, where it is a little bit harder to see clearly

what is happening there.  If this is the case, you might see if it works when
you insert the controller directly into the CoCo.  Also check for any broken
pins on the SmartWatch.

-*-

29602 20-MAY 23:03 General Information
     RE: smartwatch help! (Re: Msg 29578)
     From: RICKLT       To: ARTFLEXSER

 Again thanks for your sugestions.  I was able to get it working today. It was
all my fault, I just forgot how IC chips are numberd on the pins.

 Thanks again
 Ricklt  (Rick Tackett)

-*-

29603 20-MAY 23:11 General Information
     RE: smartwatch help! (Re: Msg 29372)
     From: RICKLT       To: PAGAN (NR)

 Stephen, I finally found the problem.  The problem was forgetfulness. I just
forgot how IC chip pins are numberd. Thank again for your replies.

 Ricklt (Rick Tackett)

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29574 20-MAY 00:10 General Information
     RE: smartwatch (Re: Msg 29482)
     From: RICKLT       To: PAGAN (NR)

  Thanks again for you input Stephen, I used the other method though, easier in-

stallation for me.  I guess that could be the problem, it seems that most hard-
ware mods never work the easy way.  I will keep trying though even if it means
buying a newer controller. Thanks again!

Ricklt  (Rick Tackett)


-*-

29575 20-MAY 00:58 Patches
     TSWORD (RE MSG 29548)
     From: VE3DAC       To: IBELIEVENUKE (NR)

Brian  - see the file VI, it has the latest patches for TSedit. A coco3 version.

Merv

-*-

29576 20-MAY 01:03 Patches
     VI
     From: VE3DAC       To: RICKADAMS (NR)

 Thanks for the new version, it seems to run a bit faster than my last TSED. One

change I made was increase the data size to C000. However I vote to eliminate or

reduce the credit time at startup. Sorry... I would also like to eliminate the
vipars requirement. To make changes a modpatch file would suit my purposes
better. No bugs found yet. Merv

-*-

29577 20-MAY 01:48 Applications
     Sculptor
     From: GENEDEAL     To: ALL

Anyone out there using sculptor at all?  I'd like to talk about it.

-*-

29586 20-MAY 13:39 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29577)
     From: EARLROB      To: GENEDEAL

   Well, I try to use Sculptor sometimes, but the docs. are not very good for a
beginning sculptorist (whatever you call a person using sculptor)
  I just spoke to Frank Hogg, and he had to stop carrying sculptor because of
the bad support from MPD.  He still uses Sculptor, and I think it is a very
powerful dev. tool, but I am not too good with it. Is there anyone out there who

is big on sculptor, and could maybe upload some demos?
            -Rob

-*-

29604 20-MAY 23:42 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29577)
     From: CIZZIJR      To: GENEDEAL

I have two databases setup under sculptor.  If you have any particular questions

 send them my way, I'll try to answer them.

 Carmen Izzi Jr.  [cizzijr]

-*-

29631 22-MAY 00:07 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29586)
     From: GENEDEAL     To: EARLROB (NR)

  I agree with you about the docs, but then after a few years of bad docs you
can overcome.  I to am a beginner, but a ccreativereative one.  I've had some
experience at writing dbms from scratch and interfacing multiple datamaster
files, so you can imagin how convenient I find sculptor.  My biggest problem is
finding the time.  I have been trying to solve a problem with spastice retic
reports to the screen. If you have any clues or experience, let me know.  My
screen doesn't seem recognize that it is more
        

-*-

29632 22-MAY 00:22 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29586)
     From: GENEDEAL     To: EARLROB (NR)


  I agree with you about the docs, but I'm used to that.  I've done a few
things, but nothing exhaustive.  I have managed to create a bilingual database
using greek and english, but everything else is just playing.  I have a problem
with output to the crt thatis driveing me crazy when I try to do reports.  It
paginates after every record!  I'd like to solve tha, t    I'd go on to other
things.

  I'd like to discuss any ideas you have, or maybe questions.  Sometimes such
interaction seems tospark a little creativity in problem solving.

                                               Gene

-*-

29633 22-MAY 00:38 Applications
     RE: Sculptor (Re: Msg 29604)
     From: GENEDEAL     To: CIZZIJR (NR)


Carmen,

  Thanks for your reply.  I have started several databases, one of which uses
multiple language character sets, but my big frustration is with reports to
screen on my cc3.  My pvdu doesn't seem to realize the number of lines
available.  I've checked the pv du file for the obvious problems, but no luck.
I'd appreciate you input. r input.

  What kind of databases have you constructed?

                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                        Thanks,
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                        Gene Deal

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29579 20-MAY 02:41 General Information
     Essay on Promoting OS-9
     From: BRIANWHITE   To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

Marty,

I challenge your essay... but I challenge it only because it was not stong
enough.  First though, I'd like to say that this message isn't only to Marty,
but to everyone who cares at all for out little OS-9 system.  Please read it,
and please make your co mments known.

You said you wanted a good word proccessor, a good spreadsheet, and a good
database.  That's nice, but it's not enough.  I want the standards!  I want Word

Perfect.  I want dBase/FoxBase.  I want Lotus 1-2-3/VP-Planner/Quatro.  But most

of all, I want Au toCAD.  I can get by with Ved & XPrint.  XPrint can handle
almost any formatting, and if that isn't enough, VPrint has more.  However,
there aren't any, to my knowledge, CAD programs available for OS-9.

My big problem with these "standards", is that the standard is IBM.  And what
really annoys me most about this "standard" is that it became a standard because

of a computer that was inferior to our machine.  Apple & Commodore with their
6502's bother me for the same reason.  But, that is no more.  I mean, what with
the advent of the 80386 (or was it the 486) and PC-relative addressing, IBM
could even do true position-independant code.  I mean let's face it.  MS-Dos is
no where close to OS-9/OSk in power /fexability, but when it comes to software
support, there is just no comparason.

As you might guess, I don't like Intel.  From an assembly point of view, the
8086 architecture really stinks.  But then the rest of the 86 line stinks
because Intel decided to remain fully compatible.  But again, let's face it.
The new 386/486 chips are
 no slouch.  They may not have quite the power of the 68030/040, but I'm not
going to notice any significant difference.

I have put a lot of time and effort into the CoCo and OS-9.  I'm currently
writing a music editor that could rival most PC programs, and I love working on
it.  But I find myself haunted with questions like "Is it worth it?"  The CoCo
is dying.  It outliv ed the Apple ][, but so what.  Is it worth spending all my
free time writing for a fossil?  I can't salvage anything I do.  I wrote it
purely in 6809 assembly to get the speed I need.  Is my program worth finishing?

The time has come to invest in a new computer.  I made quite a number of
suggestions about the "CoCo-4".  I would truely like to see it become popular
and widely used.  But people won't use it unless the software is already there.
But software doesn't u sually come until there is a user base.  The way I see
it, I have three choices for my new computer.  (1) A TS9 with 68020/030, (2) An
Amiga 3000, (3) IBM 386/486.  I would prefer the TC9 just bacause it's an
environment I like to work in.  But it's hard
 to work without the software and I can't write it all myself.

I'd like to know how other people feel about this.  I'm sure their are others
with the same dilema.  I really don't know what to do next.

                                                           Brian

-*-

29580 20-MAY 08:00 General Information
     TC9/RS-DOS
     From: CBJ          To: OS9UGPRES

Kev,
     I see from the Ad in June's RAINBOW that Frank's TC9 is to have RSDOS com-
patability.  I understood that this was not possible (read that as likely) as
the hardware was different.  Is this a false claim or has Frank found a way to
get around the difficulties of using different hardware and addresses with his
computer and maintaining RSDOS capability?  Any info would be interesting.
Thanks,  Carl

-*-

29582 20-MAY 13:19 Users Group
     RE: MOTD (Re: Msg 28913)
     From: OS9UGED      To: OS9BERT (NR)

Yes, you should have your copy by now.

-*-

29583 20-MAY 13:29 Telcom
     RE: wizpro (Re: Msg 28480)
     From: OS9UGED      To: LEFKA (NR)

Sounds like you don't have the AIF set up for the correct number of pages. Are
you using the AIF that I made?

-*-

29589 20-MAY 16:43 General Information
     RE: SCI (Re: Msg 29434)
     From: DISTO        To: TEDJAEGER

Ted,
      there is a fix, you must contact CRC @ (514) 967-0195. I don't know if it
is free. There is a least a return shipping charge, but I don't know about any
other charges. They will know. -Tony

-*-

29590 20-MAY 16:46 General Information
     os-9 Notes
     From: EUROCOCO     To: ALL

 Does anyone know what happened with the Os-9 Notes??  Also, is anyone willing
to send some up-to-date info on the Tomcat and MM1 to my mailbox on BitNet???

okPeter Tutelaers -The Netherlands-

 BitNet:     s88405777@HSEPM1.HSE.NL.BITNET

-*-

29591 20-MAY 16:50 General Information
     RS to OS9
     From: DBEARISTO    To: ALL

Can somebody please tell me how to copy files that were converted to OS-9 using
RS-OS9?  When I use the copy command, I get error # 216.

Darryn (DBEARISTO)

-*-

29596 20-MAY 22:42 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29591)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: DBEARISTO

I have used RS-OS9.BAS with success. 216 means that you didn't key in the
filename correctly. What is the exact command you are using? (read "we need more

explicit info to help you")

Zack

-*-

29605 20-MAY 23:46 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29596)
     From: DBEARISTO    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Ok, I was using the wrong filenames.  I have successfully copied the files onto
a blank formatted OS-9 disk.  However, when I try to run PAK, I get error #214
which means no permission.  When I do a DIR E, I get this:

----r--r

as the attributes.  I cannot rename this file.  I cannot change the attributes.
The user is 0.  What am I doing wrong.  I have only Drive 0 (Drive 1 is on the
way).  As I said, there is nothing on this disk except PAK.BIN and RAMDISK.PAK

Darryn (DBEARISTO)

-*-

29618 21-MAY 18:43 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29605)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: DBEARISTO

After you have modified a DECB formatted disk with RS-OS9.BAS, there is only ONE

thing you can to to the contents of that disk, and that is COPY the files to a
TRUE OS9 disk. You cannot change the attributes. You cannot modify the file. You

can only COPY if off the disk. You are in a bad way, with only one drive and one

of the things you want to get is RAMDISK!! You might try doing a backup using
the single disk option, but I'm not sure if backup would like to read the disk.
Is there anyone in your hometown who uses OS9 and has two drives? If not, looks
like you are going to have to wait until your second floppy arrives. Sorry,
maybe someone else has an idea.

Zack

-*-

29627 21-MAY 23:01 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29618)
     From: DBEARISTO    To: ZACKSESSIONS

Ok, I am still new at this and it takes some getting used to.  It finally dawned

on me that I had to load ATTR in memory from my system disk so that I could
change the attributes of the files I put on my blank OS-9 disk.  I did that
successfully and also was able to load PAK and AR into memory. However, when I
typed:  pak -x ramdisk   the program started ok, printing the headings on the
screen, then it said:  pak: can't open ramdisk.PAK I have changed that ATTR on
all these files to --ewrewr, so there should be no problem, right?  Is there
some other obscure OS-9 thing I should be doing before I try and unPAK ramdisk?
Yes, I did chd /d0 and chx/d0/cmds where ramdisk is stored.

Any ideas?


Darryn (DBEARISTO)

-*-

29649 22-MAY 19:37 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29627)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: DBEARISTO

The only other problem I am aware of with PAK is if the archive file was
downloaded with XModem, it can have some XModem padding on the end of it. PAK
chokes on that before it even extracts the first file. Do you have dEd? If so,
edit the archive file, skip to the end of the file and see if there are any $1A
characters there. That's the XModem padding. Determine the offset of the first
$1A starting from the end of the file, and "diddle" the file length to that
offset. Then try unPAKing it again. Oh, best to dEd a COPY of the file, not the
only copy you have, cuz once it's done, it's done!

If you don't have dEd, it's available in the Utilities lib.

Zack

-*-

29652 22-MAY 20:49 General Information
     RE: RS to OS9 (Re: Msg 29649)
     From: DBEARISTO    To: ZACKSESSIONS (NR)

Thanks for the help.  I'll give it a try.

Darryn.

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29594 20-MAY 21:34 General Information
     RSOS9
     From: CHYDE        To: DBEARISTO

To copy the file with the converted disk in /d1 and copying it to /d0 use copy
/d1/filename /d0/filename.  That should work.  As an aside if copy isn't in     
n
your current cmds dir you will get a 216 error too (and it's not in memory).
It's load into memory on startup if your using the shell given on the Level 2
disk. I hope this helps some.

     Chris

-*-

29595 20-MAY 22:40 Programmers Den
     RE: os9 68k software (Re: Msg 29200)
     From: OS9UGED      To: OS9UGPRES

You mean OS9K... not OSK Right? <grin>

-*-

29599 20-MAY 22:48 Tutorials & Education
     RE: Two Ramdisks? (Re: Msg 29240)
     From: R90S         To: ZACKSESSIONS



-*-

29606 21-MAY 00:18 Telcom
     New Modem
     From: CTL56        To: ALL

 I need help in settingup a new modem. I just got a 2400 Baud Modem that is
Hayes Comp.  The problem is that I can not get it to do anything. I have tried
using OSterm V2.08, SuperComm and KBcom.  I can not get the modem to respond to
any commands that are supposed to be sent to the modem.  The lights on the Modem

that are on are RD, TR and MR(modem ready).  I have tried to use the Iniz
section of OSterm and have gotten no where.

BTW, I am using a SC-II with a 3-in-1 Board and a RS DCM-6 Modem now and I have
no problem with that (after I installed the "diode hack").

 Any suggestions would be helpful, because I don't like 300 Baud, my phone bill
is outragious now.


        Thanks to ALL


-*-

29608 21-MAY 01:41 Telcom
     RE: New Modem (Re: Msg 29606)
     From: DODGECOLT    To: CTL56

Is your modem set up to hold the data carrier (CD) high all the time? The
ACIAPAK driver (for the serial port on your 3-in-1) needs to see the carrier
high before it will do anything...
 -Mike

-*-

29628 21-MAY 23:16 Telcom
     RE: New Modem (Re: Msg 29608)
     From: CTL56        To: DODGECOLT (NR)

 I am not sure that I am sure that I no how to set the Data Carrier (CD) high.
know how to set the Data Carrier (CD) high. If you could give me information on
how to do this. If I could get the modem to answer I think I could set the CD to

the High position. But until then, I will keep using this 300Baud.

   Thanks for what you have given me.


-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29609 21-MAY 02:55 Patches
     Vi
     From: DAMIONGREY   To: RICKADAMS (NR)

Rick - I did find one bug in vi.  T/S Edit has two undocumented (as far as
  I know, anyway) commands: <shift> t and <shift> l.  The former toggles the
  editor into text mode (word wrap/show CRs) if it was in line mode (program
  mode) and the latter does the opposite.  When I try to use these commands in
  vi, it munges the file in mem.  I can't give any more details, because I've
  not looked further into it yet, but this is an unfortunate bug, as I use
  these commands fairly often.  Otherwise the patches look good; much faster!!
  -:- Greg

-*-

29612 21-MAY 04:06 General Information
     IT works, FINALLY!
     From: TIMKOONCE    To: ALL

Whew!  My Disto SCII finally works in no-halt mode.  I originally bought it just

about two years ago, but when I re-packaged my CoCo into an AT case three months

later, I wasn't able to get the no-halt mode to work. I went through at least 20

different boot orders, and tried every trick I could think of software-wise, but

all to no avail.  Now, after nearly two years without it working correctly, I
managed to get it to work by doing the following hardware hacks:

  1) wrapping aluminum foil around the Y-cable to shield it,
  2) Putting a 1000 ufd cap on the CoCo +5 line
  3) Putting a 4700 ufd cap on the +5 line at the Y cable.

These were suggested to me by some comments I saw here from various people.
Now, it all seems to work just fine, except for the standard bout of software
peculiarities.  Can anyone explain to me why the no-halt drivers seem to
generate this weird IDIR entry??  It has no device driver name showing, so I
really don't know where it comes from. I don't think it was there before I put
the no-halt drivers in.
                       - Tim Koonce

-*-

29625 21-MAY 22:49 General Information
     RE: IT works, FINALLY! (Re: Msg 29612)
     From: GREGL        To: TIMKOONCE (NR)

Tim,

    That "dead" interrupt polling entry could be caused by the disk driver not
being initialized. Try an 'iniz /d0' and see if that fixes the problem. I am
assuming that no-halt driver is interrupt-driven of course.

    -- Greg

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29613 21-MAY 06:55 Utilities
      .AR files
     From: HAZE         To: ALL

Could you please tell me how to de-archive files in database, ...which utility
to down load, ...exact proceedure to de-archive downloaded files, ...do I use
put the de-archive utility on my execution directory or run in from basic.  I
use Autoterm and use Burke & Burke HCOPY to translate my files to os9 for my
Ultimuse and other os9 programs and files. I don't like to mess with RS232 pack.

I also use a Avatex 1200 modem.  This proceedure works for my uploading and
downloading Ultimuse data files, not .AR fi l?  Please help! Thanks.

-*-

29619 21-MAY 18:56 Utilities
     RE:  .AR files (Re: Msg 29613)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: HAZE (NR)

There are two major arch/dearching programs for OS9 Level 2. One is Ar, and the
Other is Pak. For the most part, file descriptions mention which archiver is
needed to dearch the file(s). If it not mentioned, then it should be obvious
from the file extension, .ar is used for Ar, and .pak is used for Pak.

Once you have downloaded the archive file you then need to dearchive it. Here is

a sample script of commands to dearchive something:

<file is downloaded to /r0/banner.ar first>
OS9: makdir /dd/banner
OS9: chd /dd/banner
OS9: ar -x /r0/banner.ar
OS9: attr banner.bin pe e
OS9: copy banner.bin /dd/cmds/banner

Note that Ar dearchives the files in the archive file to your current data
directory. Also, execution attributes are lost and need to be rest for any file
which is an executable binary. Pak works virtually identical to Ar. Both come
with adequate documentation files which describe their use, and have "built in"
help, just enter ar or pak ar the OS9: prompt, and they will tell you how to use

them.

Also, xmodem padding can cause you some grief. With ar archives, ar just
complains that the file isn't in archive format AFTER it has already dearched
all the files contained in it. Pak is less forgiving. It complains at the onset.

There are two ways to solve the padding with Pak archives. There is a utility in

the Utils lib which will "fix" the archive file. Or you can edit the archive
file with your favorite disk editor, like dEd (also in the utils; ;lib) and
"diddle" with the file length, chopping off all bytes at the end of the file
which are $1A.

Hope this helps,

Zack

-*-

29621 21-MAY 20:08 Utilities
     RE:  .AR files (Re: Msg 29613)
     From: NES          To: HAZE (NR)

Haze:  ar work's like this:
 AR -X FILE.AR        (-X mean's extrack files from the arcive)
 AR is a os9 utility and must be used under os9. also PAK is another os9 arc
program work's like AR: PAK -X  FILE      note dont put the extenion .pak at the

end of the name. Hope this help's NES

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29614 21-MAY 13:41 General Information
     ADAPTEC Controller
     From: KEITHMARCH   To: PKW

Kevin:
Paul:

 What kind of SCSI Controller do you recommend me to use with
my MFM 40 Meg. Seagate ST251-0 Hard Drive (Interface ST412)
and the MM/1?

See page 589 in the JUNE issue of Computer Shopper!

 1) ADAPTEC 5500  SCSI Controller. (SCSI-ST506/412-$79)
 2) ADAPTEC 4000A SCSI Controller. (SCSI-ST506/412-$89)
    What is the difference between the two above?
    Is one a Floppy and the other Floppy/Hard Controller?
 3) ST-01 Seagate SCSI Controller. (Hard Only)
 4) ST-02 Seagate SCSI Controller. (Hard/Floppy)

Thanks very much;

Keith

-*-

29648 22-MAY 14:43 General Information
     RE: ADAPTEC Controller (Re: Msg 29614)
     From: PKW          To: KEITHMARCH (NR)

Keith,

I've got that data around somehwere. I'll let you know if I find the SCSI
controller info soon. If you don't hear from me, give me a jingle.

Best,

Paul

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29615 21-MAY 13:43 General Information
     SCSI Hard Disk Controllers.
     From: KEITHMARCH   To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

Kevin:
Paul:

 What kind of SCSI Controller do you recommend me to use with
my MFM 40 Meg. Seagate ST251-0 Hard Drive (Interface ST412)
and the MM/1?

See page 589 in the JUNE issue of Computer Shopper!

 1) ADAPTEC 5500  SCSI Controller. (SCSI-ST506/412-$79)
 2) ADAPTEC 4000A SCSI Controller. (SCSI-ST506/412-$89)
    What is the difference between the two above?
    Is one a Floppy and the other Floppy/Hard Controller?
 3) ST-01 Seagate SCSI Controller. (Hard Only)
 4) ST-02 Seagate SCSI Controller. (Hard/Floppy)

Thanks very much;

Keith

-*-

29616 21-MAY 14:37 General Information
     Controllers (Hard)
     From: KEITHMARCH   To: OS9UGPRES (NR)

Kevin:

 I found out the difference between the ADAPTEC 5500 and 4000 SCSI Hard Disk
Controllers.

 The 5500 supports 2 Hard dirrives.
 The 4000 supports 4 Hard drives.

So can I get the 5500?

Thanks

Keith

-*-

29617 21-MAY 14:39 General Information
     Read a Message.
     From: KEITHMARCH   To: PKW

Paul,
 Please read the OS-9 Forum mess # 29616

Thanks;

Keith

-*-

29623 21-MAY 22:19 Programmers Den
     BALLS.C
     From: NES          To: DODGECOLT (NR)

Mike, have trouble compiling your balls.c with the new cgfx.l Unresolved
references:
 strlen           crw              in /dd/lib/clib.l
 malloc           object_c         in /dd/lib/clib.l
 free             object_c         in /dd/lib/clib.l
 ccasr            object_c         in /dd/lib/clib.l linker fatal: unresolved
references

Do you know what mite be causeing these error's. I have the Kreider lib. Nes

-*-

29626 21-MAY 22:55 Programmers Den
     RE: BALLS.C (Re: Msg 29623)
     From: GREGL        To: NES (NR)

Eric,

    Make absolutely sure you include the cgfx.l library before the clib.l
library on the command line. That is:

    rlink /dd/lib/cstart.r myfile.r /dd/lib/cgfx.l /dd/lib/clib.l

You want the linker to search cgfx.l first so that it can find any references in

cgfx.l that refer to routines within the clib.l library. Fun, eh?

    -- Greg

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29629 21-MAY 23:55 General Information
     CoCo 4?
     From: TONYSCHOUNTZ To: ALL

What's this on a 'CoCo 4' from K. Liegh?  Please enlighten me.  What's the
specsand all on this machine?

 - Tony

-*-

29630 21-MAY 23:58 Patches
     Printing with Phantomgraph
     From: TONYSCHOUNTZ To: ALL

I've got a problem with Phantomgraph.  Using the IBM driver, the printer fails
perform a line feed (I think it's 1/6th line feed) to my Epson T-1000 printer.
I've tried using debug to find the problem, but I can't.  The Tandy driver
doesn't work at all.  Any help is appreciated.

Thanks

   Tony


-*-

29634 22-MAY 00:43 General Information

     From: GENEDEAL     To: ALL


I am having a tough time with garbage tonight when trying to leave messages. I'm

kinda new to telecom. and could use some wisdom from the wise guys of old.

Gene Deal

-*-

29635 22-MAY 00:49 General Information
     RE: Problems, problems... (Re: Msg 29507)
     From: KMTHOMPSON   To: OS9UGPRES (NR)


  Kev,

    I am thinking perhaps that it IS software troubles, now, however, I'm
  extremely unsure on that.  I still get the BUZZ, but I've found some new
  oddities.  If I run Koronis rift off my standard boot on my Hard Drive, I
  get the buzz, but I tried booting off the original Koronis disk today and I
  get NO BUZZ.  Which helps explain why I get no buzz with RS-DOS joystick
  use--and also no mouse buzz whatsoever.  (Hi- or Lo-res).  The only thing I
  had changed with my OS9Boot file was I added my own V0.dw window to the
  boot, by XModing a standard window to VDG, and then using EZGen to change
  the name.  (Got the idea from Zack Sessions--Thanks Zack!)  Anyway, it
  worked fine, initially, but since it was the only thing I had changed in my
  boot I took it out.  This DID NOT cure the buzz, so V0 is not the culprit
  (as I really didn't think it would be, but...)  <S*I*G*H!!!>  Kinda makes
  me wish it WAS a hardware problem...  Is it?  I dunno if this will help,
  but here is an IDENT -s of my OS9Boot: (gonna be kinda LONG.. Sorry to
  those uninterested!

OS9: Ident OS9Boot -s

   17 $C0 $47B370 . OS9p2
    1 $C1 $3B3304 . OS9p3
   12 $C1 $FD1FEA . IOMan
   67 $C0 $680456 . Init
    5 $11 $B24E78 . CC3Go
   10 $C1 $A18121 . Clock
   28 $D1 $EFBE13 . RBF
    4 $E1 $93585F . BBhdisk
   33 $F1 $2194D8 . dd
   99 $F1 $6389A4 . D0
   10 $E1 $195C7B . CC3Disk
   82 $F1 $33FAA2 . F0
   82 $F1 $37E708 . F1
    1 $E1 $9F1D9C . Ram
    1 $F1 $B8412F . R0
   13 $D1 $391038 . SCF
   12 $E1 $CC3EA4 . PRINTER
   83 $F1 $DB33E4 . P
   12 $E1 $2D7DBE . ACIAPAK
   82 $F1 $1A655F . T2
   16 $E1 $14BA44 . CC3IO
    1 $C1 $11ED90 . VDGInt
   83 $F1 $B0C304 . V0
   18 $C1 $744DB8 . WindInt
   83 $F1 $69AB82 . Term
   83 $F1 $F8D0CB . W
   83 $F1 $7283DA . W1
   83 $F1 $80B69C . W2
   83 $F1 $EA7B58 . W3
   83 $F1 $1FC652 . W4
   83 $F1 $CF5BA9 . W5
   83 $F1 $AD9134 . W6
   83 $F1 $A23911 . W7
   83 $F1 $61AAC6 . W8
   83 $F1 $F3AAE7 . W9
   83 $F1 $CCA133 . W10
   83 $F1 $45A5E6 . W11
   83 $F1 $DEBB03 . W12
   83 $F1 $57BFD6 . W13
   83 $F1 $68B2C2 . W14
   83 $F1 $E1B617 . W15
    4 $D1 $AD6718 . PipeMan
    2 $E1 $5B2B56 . Piper
   80 $F1 $CC06AF . Pipe
    0 $E1 $681B28 . FT
   83 $F1 $0E846A . FTDD
   22 $E1 $A128BF . AGIVIRQDr
   83 $F1 $577429 . VI

  See anything odd?

     --]<elly

-*-

29636 22-MAY 00:55 Programmers Den
     RE: file size & basic09 (Re: Msg 29535)
     From: THEFERRET    To: GREGL

yes, I know, but xmode doesn'7t work on disk devices.

-*-

29650 22-MAY 19:44 Programmers Den
     RE: file size & basic09 (Re: Msg 29636)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: THEFERRET (NR)

Ahh, but DMODE does! And it's in the Utilitites library.

Zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29639 22-MAY 06:38 General Information
     RE: Pictures Needed (Re: Msg 29378)
     From: IVANSC       To: DALEP (NR)

Ddale!!!!!! Just got the second Rainbow with no Kissable OS9 - hope this is just

due to your move, as I really miss your input. Regards, Ivan the Englishman.

(incidentally, now you live in the next State to me, maybe we can both lobby for

a Southern Rainbowfest! (grin)


-*-

29640 22-MAY 06:45 General Information
     RE: Pictures Needed (Re: Msg 29639)
     From: TRIX         To: IVANSC (NR)

I'll vote for that!  <grin>

 Ivan, have you heard about the CoCoFest they're gonna try to have in Atlanta?

-John.

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29641 22-MAY 06:59 General Information
     your utility disk
     From: IVANSC       To: ZACKSESSIONS

I am interested! Ivan Scanlon-Ccarling 908 Traceton Court Antioch TN 37013

-*-

29643 22-MAY 14:34 General Information
     RE: OS9 vs. UniFlex (Re: Msg 29484)
     From: PKW          To: PAGAN (NR)

Stephen,

You vote for OSK has been duly noted!

Thanks for the interest, and I believe you will be very pleased.

Paul

-*-

29644 22-MAY 14:35 General Information
     RE: OS9 vs. UniFlex (Re: Msg 29486)
     From: PKW          To: MRGOOD

Hugo,

Well, you are not alone in preferring OS-9.

We'll be in touch.

Paul

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29645 22-MAY 14:38 General Information
     RE: Rainbowfest New 68000 Machine Report (Re: Msg 29517)
     From: PKW          To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

Yes, Marty,

There are a few design compromises in the MM/1, but mostly these are not
critical compromises. We've acheived most of the cost-effectiveneness via a high

degreen of integrations. We use the 68070s built-in serial port, we use a 68901
for a handful of serial stuff, and so on.

Progress reports are on the way!

Good suggestion..

Glad you a over the flu!

Now I'm getting one (groan).

Paul

-*-

29646 22-MAY 14:39 General Information
     RE: Rainbowfest New 68000 Machine Report (Re: Msg 29518)
     From: PKW          To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

Yes,

full 32-bit wide bus iss built-in to the design. We may offer both a sixteen AND

a thirty-two bit buss, but I am opting for a single design now.

Paul

-*-

29647 22-MAY 14:42 General Information
     RE: Rainbowfest New 68000 Machine Report (Re: Msg 29520)
     From: PKW          To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

I think that you are right when you say that 640 x 200 or so is quite fine for
text editing. However, from the marketing standpoint, 640 x 200 may NOT be
enough.

For some people, a CoCo serves their needs quite competently. It's just not been

MARKETED well, and now that the market has increased our expectations of
computer power, the CoCo - although competent -- will not attract a great deal
of attention beyond our domain.

The future for most of us will come from entering the 'mainstream' -- staying up

to date with popular software and hardware standards.

IOW, the higher-res modes just help keep the M/1 "mainstream".

Paul

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29651 22-MAY 19:47 Graphics & Music
     Go Bulls!!
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: ALL

Hey, all y'all graphics nuts! Check out my first original VEF graphic, now in
the New Uploads library, called "GO BULLS!!".

Zack

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 