
29530 17-MAY 23:31 General Information
     RE: Auto-Follow Mouse (Re: Msg 29522)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: DENNYSKALA (NR)

YES, there is a price to pay to leave autofollow mouse on. To turn it off , [
Don. To turn it off, just write another BASIC09 program similar to the one that
turns it on, only specify a ZERO for the "follow" value.

Zack

ps, Waiting axiously to see our pix in Rainbow!

-*-

29531 17-MAY 23:33 General Information
     RE: Auto-Follow Mouse (Re: Msg 29523)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: DENNYSKALA (NR)

Denny,

If you want to "cajole" the OS into doing the job, ie, setting mouse stuff at
boot time, you can dissassemble CC3Go and add a call to do the SS.GIP SetStt
call, reassemble, gen, and away you go!

Send me mail if you want more details.

zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29532 18-MAY 00:12 General Information
     RE: Help! My computer hated me! (Re: Msg 29492)
     From: XLIONX       To: EDDIEKUNS (NR)

No I haven't. I was advised that it was an RSDOS club (could be misinformed).



OOPS!!! I think I was there once. They demoed the CHECKS09 program. I brought
the basic09 prototype for "my" cc2 command line generator (lots of windows plus
help on options). Was it at the library???

I have to find some files see ya later!

-Mark W. Farrell -SIGOp ProSIG (Pinball Haven RIBBS) -XLIONX (DELPHI)


-*-

29533 18-MAY 00:26 Programmers Den
     RE: RMA/RLink boo-boo. (Re: Msg 29495)
     From: GREGL        To: TIMKOONCE (NR)

Tim,

    Perhaps I am looking at this from another perspective. It wouldn't hurt if
RLink flagged signed/unsigned offsets that generates erroneous acesses to data.
On the other hand, how does RLink know that you didn't actually intend to do
that? Granted, a warning message would be better than nothing at all. The
compilers, assemblers and linkers are fairly decent at generating error messages

but they really skimp on warning you about possibly but uncertain methodologies.

Unfortunately, adding that layer of detection would dramatically increase the
code size. It's give and take. But I must admit it would be very nice if that
level of sophistication were added. It'd sure save me a lot of heartache trying
to figure out why a lot of code doesn't work.

    -- Greg

-*-

29534 18-MAY 00:31 General Information
     RE: Help with Equipment and Downloading (Re: Msg 29499)
     From: GREGL        To: KNOT1

Jamie,

    Heard of Murphy? One of his laws of life states something like, "The answer
to your question always stares you blindly in the face after you've figured it
out for yourself, the hard way." It's bitten many of us quite heavily. Usually
you've just figured out the problem and settle down to relax. Just as you open
the paper, book, novel, whatever you notice the answer to that long standing
question right there in black and white. Of course it really does a lot of good
now. ;)

    -- Greg

-*-

29541 18-MAY 03:56 General Information
     RE: Help with Equipment and Downloading (Re: Msg 29534)
     From: KNOT1        To: GREGL

Greg,

Yes, I knew of Murphy, but hadn't heard of that one yet.  He sure seemed to know

his stuff, yes?  Well, at least I know I'm in good company now!  Thanks for the
info!

                 -Jamie (KNOT1)-

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29535 18-MAY 00:48 Programmers Den
     RE: file size & basic09 (Re: Msg 29527)
     From: GREGL        To: THEFERRET (NR)

Philip,

    Look at EOL in an Xmode listing. That defines the End-Of-Line character (as
we have been calling EOR) and is in all SCF device descriptors. By default EOL
is set to $0D (carriage return) but you can, theoretically, set it to any
character you want. Setting it to $00 disables it so you wouldn't have an EOL
character.

    -- Greg

-*-

29536 18-MAY 00:52 Utilities
     RE: 3 1/2" drive (Re: Msg 29426)
     From: BANCROFT     To: OS9UGVP (NR)

Tthis drive has a jumper that you have to switch.  The specs that came with it
said that switching the jumper will convert it to a double density drive.

-*-

29537 18-MAY 01:01 Utilities
     3 1/2" drive
     From: BANCROFT     To: OS9UGVP (NR)

I changed density to 1, reformated the disk, which is double density, and it
still gives me an error 249 - wrong type, after I copy something to it. Any
other ideas?


-*-

29545 18-MAY 18:11 Utilities
     RE: 3 1/2" drive (Re: Msg 29537)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: BANCROFT (NR)

Here is a dmode display from one of my 3.5" drives:

 drv=01 stp=03 typ=20 dns=03 cyl=0050 sid=02
 vfy=00 sct=0012 tos=0012 ilv=03 sas=08


As you can see, the density is set at 3. I am using the dX_80d.dd device
descriptors.

Zack

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29538 18-MAY 01:16 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29428)
     From: BILLBEISSERT To: GREGL

How about the "pak" and "ar" extensions on some of these files? Do I need to
use/have a decompression program also? Thanks for previous reply...am going to
download those programs now. Bill

-*-

29547 18-MAY 18:13 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29538)
     From: ZACKSESSIONS To: BILLBEISSERT (NR)

Files with a .PAK extension were archived with PAK and are dearchived with PAK.
Likewise, files with an .AR extension were archived with AR and are dearchived
with AR. Pretty simple, huh? <grin>

Both pak and ar are on the Utilities library.

Zack

-*-

29549 18-MAY 19:30 General Information
     RE: OS9 via RS-DOS? (Re: Msg 29538)
     From: GREGL        To: BILLBEISSERT (NR)

Bill,

    Yes, you'll need AR to extract the files in archive files that have an
extension of .AR and PAK for those archive files with an extension of PAK. Both
of these are available in the Utilities section of the database.

    -- Greg

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29539 18-MAY 01:37 General Information
     RE: database (Re: Msg 29485)
     From: RADICAL      To: ZACKSESSIONS

Thank you.  Len


-*-

29540 18-MAY 03:52 Programmers Den
     RE: SCSI operation (Re: Msg 29528)
     From: MARTYGOODMAN To: OS9UGVP (NR)

Bruce... I would VERY MUCH appreciate a basic lesson in SCSI "arbitration"...
how a host call upon a given device to wake up and then exchange data with it.
If you can leave me a phone number in MAIL again, I would be happy to cover the
cost of the long distance call to you, if you can help me.

   ---marty

-*-

29544 18-MAY 06:09 Programmers Den
     RE: SCSI operation (Re: Msg 29513)
     From: OS9UGPRES    To: MARTYGOODMAN (NR)

Marty -

<scratching head> Well, I guess in return we kinda need to know what you're
getting into. That is, are you trying to debug something, or interface to the
SCSI bus, or ?

Or if it's for an article, I'd say turn it over to Roger Krupski instead, for
example ;-).

The depth of information needed may depend, y'see. Are you gonna be an initiator

(host, usually) or target (device, usually)? Will acting as just a SASI device
be enough? Is the computer multitasking or multiproc and/or require full SCSI
connect/disconnect protocol? (most don't).

You say you need a simple and generic explanation, but then you also ask for
specific lines and timing? Which is it? <grin> Give us some hints as to what
you're up to and we can help far quicker, methinks. - kev

BTW, if you have all the Circuit Cellar INKs, you can check there... at least
two articles on SCSI interfacing have been written. The actual SCSI interface
spec itself must be around 100 pages long... mine's on loan to Tony <grin>.

-*-

End of Thread.

-*-

29542 18-MAY 04:57 Telcom
     RiBBStrek
     From: EASYSINGLES  To: ALL

I have downloaded RiBBStrek.ar several times and keep gettin an error 53.
Anybody got an idea if the problem is the posted file or am I doing something
wrong.

-*-

29543 18-MAY 05:01 Users Group
     Advent
     From: EASYSINGLES  To: ALL

I downloaded the game Advent. I have it on my hard drive /h0. Tthe data file is
on /h0/misc. the program can't find that data files and asks me for input. I
tell it where the files are and get Fatal error 200. HELP. I want to put this on

my BBS called Edgar 8/N/1 3/12/24  24 hrs. 916-392-8080. Any help will be
appriciated. Bob Dorrell


-*-

29546 18-MAY 18:11 Applications
     RE: Gravity Studio (Re: Msg 29401)
     From: EARLROB      To: NES (NR)

   I was just going to post the same message.  I am very interested in
astronomy, and the Gravity Studio (is that the company name?) looks great. I
hope there is someone out there who can tell us where to send the check, and who

to make it out to.  All I can find is a city, state, and zip! Someone please
help!
                                 Rob

-*-

29548 18-MAY 19:12 Patches
     RE: TSWORD (Re: Msg 27213)
     From: IBELIEVENUKE To: VE3DAC (NR)

 I don't agree either. I got it to work but it needs internal (software) upgrade

to take advantage of coco 3 power. Sorry for reply so late. I just finish my
cologexx college education.

Brian S.

-*-


FORUM>Reply, Add, Read, "?" or Exit> 