                 Telephone Enterainment!
                       By Jim Jacob
                  Of the Discovery BBS
                     818-353-0770
 
Telephone enterainment is a fun way of using the phone in different
ways. These lines are very well know in the valley which everyone uses.
I got into it from a friend who told me about it. I thought how stupid
what could this be? I found out that I really could have fun on the
phone other then using the modem. These are not 976 numbers but local
number (Only free if they are a local call.) around the valley.
   I found a couple of different lines around the valley. They were
comment lines, party lines, and joke lines.
    Comment lines are recordings of pre-recorded input messages that
people leave on another line with and answering maching. They recordings
were differents lenghts. Some were 30-45 and some were as long as 3
hours. But people love these things. There are so many people leaving
comments that it mostly is trash that the line runner (A line runner is
a person who sets up and run the comment line, party-line, ect) doesn't
put it on the tape. Each tape comes out about every 2 weeks. But most of
the tape was music which got boring after a while. But I really was
hooked on those for a while.
    Joke lines were wierd. I have called one and it was crazy. Which I
thought it was ok but most of the time it was skits and that sort of got
out of hand. But if people are into skits for about 10-20 minutes then
call a joke line.
    The last one is the party-line which I give credit for Because I
still call them. I have fun talking to people that I don't know and have
convertions with. I have talked to about 30-40 different people while
using the party-lines and most of them are 3 way which means that you
can talk to 3 different people at the same time. I called the REC 407
conference which is my favorite at 818-407-1113 which is a good line run
by a good line runner. There are others you might want to call which I
will give them to you at the end of this report. But the discuession on
these party-lines are great. Which I will recomend REC 407 for which is
the best line I have ever called.
     So that is what telephone enterainment is like. Fun, exciting, and
neat! Call one of these phone entertainment numbers. REC407 818-407-1113
REC407 INPUT 818-407-1112 RECOUTPUT 818-407-1111
 
DBS (comment line) 818-893-8899 PHONEFUN (JOKE LINE) 818-505-0588 SUN
VALLEY CONFERENCE (THREE WAY PARTY-LINE) 818-767-0288
