EDITORS NOTE:
     Following the general release is a longer version for trade
     publications.

David Arneke
919-279-7680 (office)

Bill Jones
919-279-6511 (office)

FOR RELEASE THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1992

AT&T PROTECTS CELLULAR PHONE CALLS FROM UNWANTED LISTENERS

     GREENSBORO, N.C. -- New technology from AT&T is cutting
eavesdroppers out of the loop for cellular phone conversations.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System protects cellular calls by
scrambling the cellular telephone's over-the-air signal.  The
signal is descrambled at the cellular carrier's switch, trans-
mitting a conventional phone signal to the recipient.
     If the scrambled over-the-air signal is intercepted, the
eavesdropper will hear only a chirping sound.  AT&T's advanced
privacy technology destroys the intelligibility of the over-the-
air signal.
     "This system significantly increases the usefulness of cel-
lular phones for anyone in business with a duty of
confidentiality--or anyone who simply wants protection from
eavesdroppers," says Ed Hickey, AT&T Vice President, Secure Com-
munications Systems.
     "It enables users to conduct business on their cellular
phone just as they would in their office or home."
     The AT&T system is an unprecedented solution to a problem
inherent in cellular technology.  Cellular telephone calls,
transmitted as radio signals, are easily interceptable with inex-
pensive, widely available scanners.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System is the first widely
available, integrated solution to the privacy problem.  It offers
benefits far beyond those of any other cellular privacy products.
   o It's the first privacy system with technology compact enough
     and light enough to be embeddable in today's small, portable
     phones.
   o The system features an unmatched combination of high voice
     quality and an advanced level of privacy.
   o It is applicable to all three types of cellular telephones--
     portable, transportable ("bag phones") and mobile (car
     phones).
     The system has two components.  The AT&T privacy unit at-
taches to the phone and scrambles the phone's signal.  The Mobile
Telephone Switching Office (MTSO) unit is installed at the cel-
lular carrier's switch and descrambles the signal.
     The first compatible phone is the AT&T Model 9000 Privacy-
Capable Cellular Telephone, an 8.9-ounce portable model.
     Suggested retail price of the Model 9000 is $795.  The op-
tional privacy unit retails for $895.  The phone, privacy unit
and switch unit will be available in February.
     For more information, contact David Arneke, 919 279-7680, or
Bill Jones, 919 279-6511.
                            #   #   #

TRADE VERSION

David Arneke
919-279-7680 (office)

Bill Jones
919-279-6511 (office)

FOR RELEASE THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1992

AT&T PROTECTS CELLULAR PHONE CALLS FROM UNWANTED LISTENERS

     GREENSBORO, N.C. -- New technology from AT&T is cutting
eavesdroppers out of the loop for cellular phone conversations.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System protects cellular calls by
scrambling the cellular telephone's over-the-air signal.  The
signal is descrambled at the cellular carrier's switch, trans-
mitting a conventional phone signal to the recipient.
     If the scrambled over-the-air signal is intercepted, the
eavesdropper will hear only a chirping sound.  AT&T's advanced
privacy technology destroys the intelligibility of the over-the-
air signal.
     "This system significantly increases the usefulness of cel-
lular phones for anyone in business with a duty of
confidentiality--or anyone who simply wants protection from
eavesdroppers," says Ed Hickey, AT&T Vice President, Secure Com-
munications Systems.
     "It enables users to conduct sensitive business on their
cellular phone just as they would in their office or home."
     The AT&T system is an unprecedented solution to a problem
inherent in cellular technology.  Cellular telephone calls,
transmitted as radio signals, are easily interceptable with inex-
pensive, widely available scanners.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System is the first widely
available, integrated solution to the cellular privacy problem.
It offers cellular users benefits far beyond those of any other
cellular privacy products.
   o It's the first privacy system with technology small enough
     and light enough to be embeddable in today's small, portable
     phones.
   o The system features an unmatched combination of high voice
     quality and an advanced level of privacy.
   o It is applicable to all three types of cellular telephones--
     portable, transportable ("bag phones") and mobile (car
     phones).
     The system has two components.  The AT&T privacy unit at-
taches to the phone and scrambles the phone's signal.  The Mobile
Telephone Office Switch (MTSO) unit is installed at the cellular
carrier's switch and descrambles the signal.
     The first compatible phone is the AT&T Model 9000 Privacy-
Capable Cellular Telephone, an 8.9-ounce portable model.  The op-
tional privacy unit and its extended battery add less than six
ounces to the weight of the phone.  The module and battery add
about a half inch to the depth of the phone.
     The Model 9000 is a full-featured, third-generation cellular
phone.  Other compatible models are in development by AT&T and
other manufacturers.  Privacy modules for those phones are being
developed by AT&T.
     Suggested retail price of the Model 9000 is $795.  The op-
tional privacy unit retails for $895.  The phone, privacy unit
and switch unit will be available in February.
     The phone will be sold through carriers and by a variety of
retail outlets including cellular telephone agents, consumer
electronics stores and mass merchandisers and through an inter-
national network of distributors.
     Because the privacy system scrambles the only over-the-air
portion of the call, no matching unit or special equipment is re-
quired at the receiving end.
     Installation of the privacy module is quick and simple.
Once the phone is equipped, privacy is activated by simply
pressing a button anytime during the call.
     Service and support for the phone and privacy unit will be
available through the nationwide network of Antel service
centers.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System was developed by AT&T
Secure Communications Systems, a world leader in the design,
manufacture and integration of encryption and privacy products.
It is a primary supplier of secure products to the governments
of the United States and other nations as well as corporations
around the world.
     For more information, contact David Arneke, 919 279-7680, or
Bill Jones, 919 279-6511.
                            #   #   #