EARTHRISE ITEM LIST


Oxygen bottle: found in cabin of shuttle, with about 16% charge. 
needed to allow space suit to function. Recharge on shuttle and in
crygenics section of station.

Helmet: in cabinet in airlock room of shuttle. Wear in space, and
non-pressurized sections of station. Look at lights above airlock
doors, if red, the area beyond is not pressurized. Also, you can
LOOK at the panels on the walls if in doubt.

Field Glasses: in Observatory on first level, great for reading 
messages that are too far.

Eric the Bee: VERY important guy, found in the lab on first level.
Treat him well. He's probably better left where you find him until
you find where he is to be used.

Welding torch: in Admin area, level one. Fixes cables.

Electromagnet: useful in deflecting steel aimed at your body. Found
in the gym, level two.

Ladder: in emergency exit room off cryogenics section. A useful 	  
bridge.

Laser Drill: in storeroom off mineshaft. Drills holes where you
need them, including in monsters. Be selective.

Hammer: breaks glass where necessary!!! Found in living quarters

Hacksaw: cuts metallic objects, found in living quarters.

Portable Ultraviolet lamp: Dries gelatin! Found in garden room,
after you	handle the occupant. He (the spider) can not be 		
killed by any weapon you carry. You can modify his 		
environment with one of your treasures!!!

Cake: in kitchen, is just filled with calories and preservatives.

Knife: in kitchen, cuts only vegetable matter.

Wire cutter: mine storeroom. Premature use can ruin your day.

Empty food cylinder: Good for temporary transport of pressure
sensitive items. In kitchen storeroom.

Flathead Screwdriver: in spacesuit on surface.

Phillips Screwdriver: behind panel on antenna tower.

Ground wire link: behind panel in holographic control center in
recreation area.
Wrench: upper level of engine room. turns valves.

Items for which I found no use: 1) gun, 2) comb, 3) sock, all found
in living quarters. Gold nugget on surface. ( But I missed the
total of 800 by 30 points).

	Earthrise is a nice adventure game, even though you must
occasionaly wrestle with the text parser. Enjoy !

						JohnV
						72047,244


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
