                    King's Quest III Hints
                         John Geiser



     So your stuck huh?  Well I tell you there were times
when I was going to throw the game, no, the whole computer
out my window because the game was driving me nuts and I
thought it was impossible to solve!
     But that just makes you feel better when you finally
finish the game.  So please DON'T go through this and read
everything.  Read only when you are REALLY stuck.  If you use
your brain you can get almost all of the puzzles.

IN THE HOUSE:  In here the first thing you should do is do
what the wizard tells you (ie. Sweep the kitchen, feed the
chickens).  Then get everything you can in the house.  But
DON'T get anything from the basement.  In the wizards bedroom
you will find lot's of helpful things.  One word of caution:
the wizard will leave on a trip and he always returns around
30 minutes of playing time, so don't have anything magical in
possession because the wizard will kill you.  The next thing
to do is leave the house and be careful going down the path.

OUTSIDE THE HOUSE:  Once down the path be careful of the two
muggers (if you get mugged it's okay, I'll tell you about
that later).  Next you should get everything you can.
(Another hint: On the disk is a file called OBJECTS, TYPE
this file to see all the Items you need to get in the game.)
If you get mugged you can get everything back in a tree by
the desert.  You must pull a rope beneath the tree in a hole
and a ladder will come down you then climb it and there is a
tree fort on the tree.  You must get the porridge from the
three bears cottage, but DON"T eat it, you will need it
later.  You must also get a thimble from the house and fill
it up with dew drops from the flowers.  To get the snake skin
you must first kill Medusa.  You can do this by going in a
desert screen and have your man facing the right side of the
screen, then when Medusa appears enter "use mirror" (which
you got in the house) and she will fry! (turn into stone)
then walk along the desert, ONLY up or down but never to the
left because this leads nowhere and is useless.  If you
haven't already been in the fort in the tree you will need to
go there to get some coins.  Go to the store and buy one of
everything.  Keep an eye on your time because when the time
gets around 30 minutes the wizard comes back from his trip
and if your out of the house he will kill you.  Get
everything you need (Mistletoe, some mud from ocean, a cup of
ocean water etc) then head back home.

BACK IN THE HOUSE: Okay now you back home with all of that
magic stuff so what do you do?  Go upstairs and put all under
bed.  Then wait for wizard to come back.  When he does he
will want to eat so feed him some food, BESIDES the porridge,
because you will need this later.  The wizard will then go to
sleep.  At this time you will need all the stuff from outside
the house and the wizards wand to make the spells.  Having
trouble finding the wand?  Well all I will tell you is that
the key to the wand is in the wizards bedroom, but DON'T take
it when the wizard is sleeping, he will zap you.  Having
problems finding the fly wings?  They are in the telescope
room.  Go in the basement (to do this move books in wizards
den and then pull lever).  Go downstairs to basement and
watch out for the cat!  If he is by the stairs leading to the
basement you will trip over him and die.  By the way did you
get the cat hair from the cat and the dog hair from the dog
in the store outside the house?  If not you will need it.
     Next make the spells by typing the steps from the
instruction booklet.  Be careful you MUST type the spells
exactly as the book shows them or you will die a horrible
(and very funny) death!  When you are done with the spells.
Put everything under your bed except the porridge and the
cookie that changes people into a cat.  Put the cookie in the
porridge and when the wizard wakes up feed the poison
porridge to the wizard and then....

THE STUPID WIZARD IS DEAD!!!!!! (Well actually just a cat!)

     Have you been wondering how to get in the cave with the
spider?  Now that you have the spell to fly like an eagle, go
to that screen and use it.  You will pick up the spider and
drop it in the ocean.  To get a boat to travel across the sea
go to the bar and give coin to captain. He will let you on
the ship!

NOTES:  This is only part of the adventure if you need more
help on the above hints drop me (that's John Geiser) a note
and I will get back to you!.  I also have solved Space Quest
, King's Quest, King's Quest II and The Black Caldron if you
need any help just ask!

P.S.  The most important thing when playing this adventure is
to save the game frequently!!  This helps dramatically!!!!!
You MUST do this to win (unless you're real good).



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
