                           อออ Champions of Krynn อออ
                      Text file written by SNooPY, 1/4/90

-- Forward --
The following documentation is essential to solving Champions of
Krynn. The main aspects of the manual are included, and believe me,
that was no small task.  So when you read this document, think a
minute of me, the poor soul who was stuck with the task of
copying the Adventurer's Journal. Well, anyway, here goes.

It all happened on a Thursday...


INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the official ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS (c) computer
product, Champions of Krynn, a DRAGONLANCE(tm) fantasy role-
playing epic.  This game is based on the rules and background
created by TSR, Inc. and a story line created especially for this
game.

Champions of Krynn begins after the War of the Lance.  The evil
armies have been shattered and most of the forces of good have
returned to their homelands, leaving only outposts to safeguard
the recovered lands.  Your goal is to assemble a party of
adventurers to serve in these border outposts.

The newly created party appears at an outpost south of the former
hobgoblin capital of Throtl with orders to scour the area for any
sign of lingering evil. After outfitting your characters with
weapons and armor, the party is ready to begin adventuring.

---------

To the Circle of Knights:

    I, your humble servant, send you greetings.  This missive is
sent without the knowledge of my commandant and in violation of
his orders.  I take this action in full knowledge of the
consequences it may bring upon me and through the conviction that
in doing so, I fulfill my oath.
    The commandant has been acting strange of late as if
afflicted by some dark spell.  I know that information of evil
portends has not been forwarded to your august body as required
by our charter.  Many of our most faithful followers have died
suddenly and mysteriously within this last fortnight.  The
commandant has been too ready with replacements for them,
replacements which have an unclear feel.
    I ask that you send a knight of pure character and high
stature to investigate my conduct and this report.  As further
evidence, I provide, in its entirety, a letter found on the body
of one Hal Horbin, a ranger of the highest character.


"Dear Istan:

    Far from annoying me, I find the greatest pleasure in
responding to your inquiry, dear brother.  It has been some time
since I have turned my mind to the scholarly histories in which I
formerly delighted.  Your questions regarding the relationship
between the War of the Lance and these outposts provides a
welcome diversion from my normal duties.  But first, a bit of
background...
    Ansalon is a small continent stretching from the arctic to
the equatorial climates in the southern hemisphere of the World
of Krynn.  It was across the face of this troubled land that the
War of the Lance raged in years past and brought our company to
its present unhappy fate.
    In the 348th year after the Cataclysm, the evil forces of
Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness, launched the treacherous war she
had long prepared in secret. Striking first north, east, and then
south, the armies of evil dragons, fell draconians, and all
manner of other evil beings quickly overran the unprepared and
the unsuspecting.
    The good dragons, historical enemies of the evil dragons,
could not ally themselves with the forces of good.  As part of
the Dark Queen's plan, their eggs were taken as hostage while the
great beasts slept.  The good dragons' "neutrality" was the price
they paid to keep their eggs from harm.     While the good
forces' attempts to ally against the common threat were hampered
by treachery and old feuds, the evil armies made good use of
their time.  Quickly consolidating their hold on the newly
conquered lands, they struck west and even further south in the
winter of 351 A.C.     It was in this year that a group of
companions met at the Inn of the Last Home is Solace.  The
exploits of the companions are now well known--How they gained
the disks of Mishakal and returned them with the first true
cleric to walk the lands since the Cataclysm.  How their
discovery that the draconians were the result of the corruption
of the good dragon eggs freed the dragons from their pledge and
brought them into the war on the side of good.  How they helped
Berem to return to the temple outside of Neraka and with his
death to close the portal that gave Takhisis an entry into Krynn.
    It was at this time that many counted the War over.  With
their queen locked out of this world, the DragonArmies lost their
sense of direction.  Many urged the good armies to return home
and disband, some were foolish enough to do so.  But evil
retained a strong grip on much of the land.  The corruption
process was stopped, but good eggs were not returned and the
exploits of the companions had given evil yet a new form.
    Raistlin Majere, a companion with his brother Caramon, was
caught up in the web of power that blazed through the land.
While working against the Dark Queen's plans, his own grew ever
more ambitious.  By the time She was driven out of the land, his
own robes, once a neutral red, became as black as his heart.
Through long and macabre studies, he became convinced that he
himself could become a god.  Not just a god, the most powerful of
all gods.  Through his plots and machinations, another foul time
swept over Ansalon, this one threatening even more defilement
than that caused by the DragonArmies.  It was only when Raistlin
realized that, if he persisted, he would be left to rule a dead
world, that he relented.
    Caught up in this power struggle, evil forces struck again.
Kitiara, half-sister to Raistlin and the hero Caramon, organized
an attack.  Dragons, draconians, men, and other evil creatures
bypassed the High Clerist's Tower and fell on Palanthas.  The
city would have stood against even these forces had it not been
for the aid given by Lord Soth and his Death Knights.     None
could stand before them as they swept through the city streets.
In the very tower where Raistlin did battle with the Dark Queen,
Kitiara fell.  It is said that Lord Soth took her unwilling and
undead body off to a fate far worse than a clean death.  Whatever
the reason, the Death Knights withdrew and good overthrew the
invaders.
    With this clear lesson before them, all realized the evil
treat could return at any time.  With new resolve, the alliance
stood to arms again.  Led by the Solamnic Knights, the good
forces smashed through the remain DragonArmies.  In a long and
bitter campaign, the eastern lands were freed. The City of
Sanction fell to a bloody siege.  Evil was routed and its
followers driven deep into hiding.
    So as not to be caught unprepared again, the knights
established outposts, like this one, throughout the Eastern
Lands.  With that, the armies withdrew and, save for the knights,
were largely disbanded.  All depend on our outposts. We are to be
vigilant, to stamp out evil where we find it and, if dark plots
threaten, to give advance warning to good folk everywhere.
    For all of the confidence many felt when Sanction fell,
things are not as they could be.  Many of the good dragon eggs
remain lost.  Lord Soth stays secure and apparently untouchable
in his fortress (although he provided no aid to the DragonArmies
in this last conflict).  The knights, on whom so much depends,
are stretched too thin.  Indeed, it is all the knights can do to
provide the outposts with leadership.  The work of patrolling,
and the like, falls almost entirely on ordinary folk, such as
ourselves.
    And if the other outposts are like this one, things may be
much worse than they appear.  Strange events have occurred.  We
hear rumors.  Rumors of settler caravans killed or enslaved.  Of
a strange force that opens graves and robs the dead.  Of evil
dragons seen flying to the east.  Of entire cities captured and
secretly enslaved.
    Our commandant sends out patrols and they report nothing.  At
least those who return have nothing to report.  But of late, not
all sent out have been coming back.  I know the commandant has
been urged to report all this, but he has refused to do so.
The fact is that our commandant has not been himself lately.  He
looks the same and talks the same, but his actions--his feel--are
quite different.  I fear some dreadful fate awaits us all.  A
fate we should be able to see but which a dark veil is hiding.
    Ah, I babble.  We are in the western-most outpost below the
deserted City of Throtl.  Of all the outposts, we have the least
to fear.  My regards to our mother.  Tell her I am safe and
likely to remain that way.
    Your brother,
    Hal"


                              Respectfully submitted for your
                              consideration:
                              MOTHUS STRONGSWORD
                              Knight of Tears




                         ** JOURNAL ENTRIES **

The following entries can not be read in order.  During the game,
you will be instructed to read a Journal Entry by it's number.
Don't read all the entries, since many may be false and
misleading.  Read only the ones you are instructed to.

JOURNAL ENTRY 1
---------------
    "Sir Era!  Sir Era!  We are ultimately responsible for these
people!  I don't think that we have the space to accommodate all
of these refugees, considering that Vertrothe will soon be back
from his quest.  May I suggest that we send them on their way?
The simplest solution would be to shut the castle against them
and just pretend they don't exist..."
    the odious minister to the Knight continues to fawn in the
most obsequious manner.  His charm and personality have convinced
you that ridding the world of this...`person'...would be
beneficial to Krynn.  Fortunately, cooler heads prevail and the
minister is quickly taken from the room.

JOURNAL ENTRY 2
---------------
    "Listen, I know that you think that Sir Karl is a most
honorable Knight; however, I have found out that he is under the
influence of an evil Dragon named Maya.  Maya is able to
transform herself into the shape of a beautiful woman.  We must
forget about finding Caramon at this time.  If we can get to the
outpost in time we may be able to save it."

JOURNAL ENTRY 3
---------------
    "We were captured by draconians disguised as the merchant
band that comes through here every month.  When we were sleeping,
they killed the guards at the gate and captured us before we had
a chance to even fight.
    "The took our leaders into the barracks and interrogated
them.  They've all got to be dead now.
    "Be careful!  I saw one of the draconians kill the
Commandant.  As the Commandant died the draconian's shape changed
and then he looked and sounded exactly like the Commandant.
The 'Commandant' and the other leaders spend a lot of time in the
Commandant's Office."

JOURNAL ENTRY 4
---------------
    The townspeople come out and thank you after the last of the
DragonArmies are driven from the outpost.  They have a large
celebration with you as the guests of honor.  The new Commandant
speaks:  "Thank you for saving us.  Your heroic actions will live
forever."
    THe people cheer you as you accept the key to the outpost.

JOURNAL ENTRY 5
---------------
    The gully dwarves scatter at your approach.  Disgusting
traces of their recent meal permeate everything in sight.  Your
camp equipment has been opened and all foodstuffs eaten.  You
quickly look to the place where you had left the piece of the
dragon orb.  It is gone!

JOURNAL ENTRY 6
---------------
    As you walk up to the dying body of the Commandant, Grilliard
says, "Why did you do this to us?  We are now too weak to hold
the outpost against Takhisis' forces."
    You see a flight of Red Dragons closing in on the town...

JOURNAL ENTRY 7
---------------
    "Listen, Sir Karl is the most honorable of men.  I would
follow him anywhere.  But there is something very dark and
strange going on around him. He seems obsessed with a young girl
named Maya.  The fact that he's about 40 years older than she is
isn't really the problem;  if they'd just settle down and declare
themselves!  All that would happen is that a few gossips will
snicker and that'll be the end of it.  But they won't do that.
Maya is extremely valuable to us.  She has sources of information
that are astounding, especially for one so young.  But whenever
the two of them are in the same room the tension is so obvious
that...
    "Ah, never mind.  You say that he seems to be all right.  I
will go on that hope, and let troubles find me in their own good
time.  Let's go."

JOURNAL ENTRY 8
---------------
    As you work to free the slaves, their shackles seem to come
off too easily. Before you can react, they whip out weapons and
prepare to attack.  One laughs, "The one you saw die before you
was not Sir Karl, it was a Sivak.  There are no slaves here, it
was only a story to lure you to your doom."  They begin to close
in.

JOURNAL ENTRY 9
---------------
    She explains to Caramon, "I've been sent by Sir Karl to get
you back to the Outpost.  There are rumors that large forces of
draconians, hobgoblins, minotaurs and others are gathering.  We
need you to direct scouting and raiding operations.  I see now
that things are worse than we though.  Throtl was supposed to
have been abandoned."
    Caramon says, "It's even worse than that.  I have seen Brass
Dragon Eggs!"     She gasps, "No!  They must not do this again!"
Then she pauses, "Wait, how can they do it?  I though the process
was lost during the War of the Lance. Did you see any evidence
that they were successful?"
    "No," says Caramon, "I was knocked unconscious before I had a
chance to look further."  He turns to you.  "I need you to
investigate this matter.  Find the key, and go to the old temple
in the Northeast part of the city.  Find out what you can."

JOURNAL ENTRY 10
----------------
    "...attempt a conversation without the intervention of Tak...
     ...book of spells that contains the necessary incantations
and rituals for the conversion.  It is said that this book will
allow even relatively weak ma...
     ...nze, silver and gold were considered the most difficult
trans..."

JOURNAL ENTRY 11
----------------
    You follow Angar into one of the buildings.  He yells, "I
have a gift for you!" and you are greeted by a Dragon Highlord
and a group of his minions.  As you start to draw your weapons,
you realize that you have lost a great deal of strength.  He must
have drugged the food as well.
    You never should have trusted him...

JOURNAL ENTRY 12
----------------
    "Welcome to the Southern Outpost.  I am Grilliard, the
Commandant here.  I hear you have important news for me."
    You tell him about all of the adventures that you have been
on and all of the information that you have gathered.  After you
finish you ask him about the missing messenger.
    He looks a little nervous for a moment, and then says, "He
has been ill. I'm afraid no one can see him right now.  Thank you
for delivering the information and good luck on your journey
back.  I'm afraid I have to get back to work."
    With that, he waves you out of his office.








JOURNAL ENTRY 13
----------------
ฺฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฟ           Key
ณ  บ =    ฺฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฟ    = บ  ณ<-Tower   -----
รฤมฤฤู    ณ Houses  ณ    ณ    ณ    ภฤฤมฤด           = door
ณ         ภฤฤฤ=มฤฤฤ=มฤฤฤ=มฤฤฤ=ู         ณ           บ stairs
ณ               ฺฤฤยฤฤฟ  ฺฤฤฤฤฟ         ณ           @ secret door
ณ  ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ   รฤฤล=ฤด  ณTav-ณ    ฺฤฤฤฤดGuard
ณ  ณBarracksณ   รฤฤInnณ  ณern ณ    =    ณHouse
ณ  รฤฤฤย=ฤฤฤด   ภฤฤมฤ=ู  ภฤฤฤ=ู    ภฤฤฤฤด
ณArmory=  <--Commandant's office       /  Front
ณ  รฤฤฤม=ฤฤฤด                          \  Gate
ณ  @ฤ=ย=ย=ย=ด   ฺGen.=ฟ  ฺฤฤฤฤ=ฟ   ฺฤฤฤฤด
ณ  ภฤPrisonฤู   ณStoreณ  ณArmorณ   =    ณ
ณ               ภฤฤฤฤฤู  ภฤฤฤฤฤู   ภฤฤฤฤด
ณ         ฺฤฤฤ=ฤฤฤฟ  ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ        ณ
รฤยฤฤฟ    ณStorageณ  ณ Stables =   ฺฤฤยฤด
ณ  บ =    ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู  ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู   = บ  ณ
ภฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤู


JOURNAL ENTRY 14
----------------
    "Okey, dokey.  Listen up people.  Here's how you play.  Now
I've got three cards here.  Two of them are Gargoyles and the
third is the Princess.  I'm gonna place the cards face down on
the table, with the Princess in the middle. Now, all you have to
do is guess where the Princess is after I move the cards around.
Easiest thing in the world, right?  It's only three cards and I'm
sure you won't have any problem keeping track of the Princess.
Simplest thing in the world.  Now, who'll place a small wager of,
say...3 steel pieces?"


JOURNAL ENTRY 15
----------------
     "Listen," the woman says, "we...that is, Sir Karl and
I...have determined that it is imperative that the entire area be
evacuated.  The number of undead sightings has increased to and
alarming degree.  We want you to head into Gargath and force the
population to evacuate immediately.  Thank goodness there are no
more Draconians.  I don't know how we would be able to get out of
we had them to contend with as well."

JOURNAL ENTRY 16
----------------
     The plan has to be carried out in stages.  Stage One, which
is already complete, was to threaten various small areas to the
north and get the good armies to begin a consolidation of their
forces.  We were fortunate to find a rather hapless party that we
were able to use to pass the false information to their leaders.
It was pure chance that they were sent after Caramon when he was
captured in Throtl.  We couldn't have planned better for our
purposes.  We left clues behind to lead the group to Gargath,
Jelek and Neraka.  This gave us time to complete our plans for
the ambush at Sanction.

JOURNAL ENTRY 17
----------------
     ...the book of conversion that I found is useless.  It
doesn't give us the actual ceremony to perform.  It is merely and
description of the ceremony.  I will have to come...

JOURNAL ENTRY 18
----------------
Tale of Sir Dargaard:
     In the past, a faithful Knight of the Rose named Sir
Dargaard gained an item which gave him great fighting prowess.
He was a scourge of the evil armies until his entire company was
poisoned at a feast.  The company was buried along with Sir
Dargaard's great device in lands later overrun by evil.  The evil
ones sought to wrest the artifact from the tomb, but were slain
by the spirits of Sir Dargaard and his company.  Our scouts now
say that draconians have attempted to penetrate the tomb again,
perhaps with sufficient strength to succeed.  It is time for a
truly noble knight to go and ask that the artifact be passed on
to guard the forces of good today.
     On a side note, you will be happy to know that Caramon has
contacted our elite units in Solamnia.  The Council of Knights
themselves will lead them into the coming battles.  I will be
certain to mention your impressive record to them when they
arrive.
         ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ                   ฿ Gargath   ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ      x Tomb                   ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ                ฿ Outpost      ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ           ฿ Jelek             ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ณ                               ณ
         ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู




JOURNAL ENTRY 19
----------------
     The Dragonlance was a stroke of genius.  With one small
theft we distracted them from the main threat and forced their
attention on the recovery of the weapon.  This became Stage Two,
since it fit so neatly with our plans.  It allowed us to delay
the original kidnapping of Sir Karl just long enough to gather
many more bodies for Sir Lebaum to work with.

JOURNAL ENTRY 20
----------------
     The 'Plan' is to be carried out in three stages.  Stage one
is nearly done.  We have managed to kill Caramon and Tanis and
have captured or put to flight most of the other 'Heroes' from
the Dragonlance Wars.  The good armies are reduced to sending out
hapless adventurers who have little or no experience.  We have
managed to feed information to one of those bands with notable
success.  The information is true, but it always comes too late
to be of any interest.

JOURNAL ENTRY 21
----------------
     "Hey, come here.  Look at this.  This is a piece of the
dragon orb that Tasselhoff broke!  Just this little piece of the
orb will allow you to control the largest dragon!  I'll sell it
to you for only 2,000 steel pieces...and it's a bargain at twice
the price!  NO, don't touch it with your bare fingers.  The last
person who did that woke up with a withered hand!  Gruesome.  So,
what offer have I?"

JOURNAL ENTRY 22
----------------
     "Welcome, I am Jadefang.  I have been asssigned to capture
thisss hole and convinssse you 'Humansss' that you ssstill own
it.  We did thisss ssso we could gather information and keep the
ssssouthern road open.  Ssssince you have given ussss a lot of
ussseful information, I thank you."
     He bows gracefully and continues to speak.
     "However, you also have dissscovered our sssecret and
therefore you mussst die."
     You now notice that he is not alone in the barracks.  He
rises into the air...

JOURNAL ENTRY 23
----------------
          To Keep
 ฺฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤยฤ===ฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฟ  Key
 ณ  รฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤยฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฟ  x     ณ        รฤฤฤฤฤด  ณ -----
 ณ  ณ        =        รฤฤมฤฤยฤxมฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤ=ฤฤฤฤ=ด  ณ = door
 ณ  ณ        รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ=     ณ        =        ณ  ณ x secret
 ณ  ณ        =        =     รฤฤฤฤฤฤ=ฤด        ณ  ณ   door
 ณ  ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤด        รฤฤฤฤฤด        ณ        ณ  ณ
 ณ           ณ        =     x        รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู  ณ
 ณ           ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤด     รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู           ณ
 ณ                    ภฤxฤฤxู                    ณ
 ณ                                               ณ
 ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู



JOURNAL ENTRY 24
----------------
     Old ogre's story:
     "I was once the councillor to the ogre princess, but I have
become too weak and crippled to keep my place.  Now I hear of
plots against our lord Gravnak, by one of his lieutenants.
Draconians have slipped into the manor house and will strike when
the current meeting ends.  I watched them enter and saw the
secret sign they gave the guards.
     I have no love of these assassins or their traitorous ally.
Use the sign to enter the manor, seek out the assassins and find
evidence implicating Morog.  He is the traitor.  His rooms lie in
the southeast of the manor."

JOURNAL ENTRY 25
----------------
     "When you get to Gargath, beware of anyone who appears to be
bending over backward to help you.  Be especially aware of anyone
who mentions Sir Karl.  We don't think that they know that we are
now aware of their deception.
     "Be especially careful about any clothing they may want you
to wear.  There is an evil mage in the town who delights in
putting curses on harmless-looking objects.  Good luck."

JOURNAL ENTRY 26
----------------
     "Gargath was overrun about a week ago.  There were only a
few of us here at that time trying to rebuild after the War of
the Lance.  Draconians and evil forces snuck in at night and
captured the Keep.  Since then they have been bringing in
prisoners and putting them to work.  They make us wear these
hoods to keep track of us."

JOURNAL ENTRY 27
----------------
     "We have had to exhume all of the bodies in the graveyard
and burn them.  We found out that someone was entering the burial
glen, digging up the bodies, and then re-animating them into
zombies and ghouls.  It's been hard, especially for those that
recently buried their loved ones, but it was necessary."

JOURNAL ENTRY 28
----------------
     "I've been kept out of the burial grounds now for a week, I
can't even get in there to get my tools.  There are strange
things going on in there..open graves, broken tombstones, strange
noises...even the animals are gone!  That Sir Lebaum is ruining
the town.  He even made his office in the burial glen!  It's in
the building just to the south and west of here but the door is
through the graveyard.
     "That's another strange thing...nobody's ever seen our new
leader, at least, nobody that I know of.  He gives his orders and
the 'guards' carry them out.
     "Things just ain't right."

JOURNAL ENTRY 29
----------------
     Stage Four runs almost in step with Stage Three.  As soon as
Sir Lebaum has launched his attack, the mass conversion of dragon
eggs into draconians will be performed.  The good armies will be
caught in our mailed fist!  They have no idea that they are about
to be attacked by two huge armies!  The first of the good armies
will be filled with their leaders and the elite of those accursed
Knights.  When our armies rise so quickly, we shall cut the very
heart of the ability to resist us.  With the leaders dead the
rest of the rabble will wander like sheep.

JOURNAL ENTRY 30
----------------
     Stage two is currently coming to fruition.  Sir Lebaum, our
Sivak who has taken over the leadership of the Knights of the
Rose, has sown enough discord in the ranks of the Knights to
render them ineffective against us.  In a few days he will issue
the order that will send most of the Knights over the mountains
and out of this area altogether.

JOURNAL ENTRY 31
----------------
     "Watch out for the minister.  They say that he has taken
over the castle of Sir Era and now runs the old knight, as well
as the kingdom.  The people are being...hush!  He's here!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 32
----------------
     Gravnak's alliance plans:
     "We are both hunting for Myrtani while he seeks our deaths.
I have no love for sanctimonious knights and their ilk, but I do
love my life.  To keep that, I would suggest a temporary
alliance.  Myrtani has a base in Kernen which he visits quite
often.  If you can slip into town, I have allies who will help
you penetrate the base and kill Myrtani."
     He then shows you the secret sign to give his allies.

JOURNAL ENTRY 33
----------------
     "The Dragonlance has been moved to Jelek.  After the Keep
was overrun I managed to smuggle it out of town and hide it in
the burial glen.  It is hidden in an unused tomb in the north-
west corner of the graveyard.  You will recognize the entrance
because there is a silver rose bush growing just before it."

JOURNAL ENTRY 34
----------------
     Gravnak and the draconians turn on you.  "Fools!" he hisses,
"Did you really think a member of my proud race would ever ally
with the likes of you?"
     You are attacked from all sides.

JOURNAL ENTRY 35
----------------
     "I was with a party of knights and others under Caramon that
came in here to explore.  We haven't really found anything.
Caramon's already left to report.  I guess you must have missed
him.
     "Oh, one thing we did find out was that there is a treasure
left over from the previous occupants of Throtl.  We got word of
it from a hobgoblin who was sneaking in to claim it.  Before he
died, he told us that it was located in the south-central area of
the city.  Tell you what, if you help me find this treasure, I'll
split it with you.  All right?"

JOURNAL ENTRY 36
----------------
     "Thank Paladine, you're here.  They've taken everything!  My
poor family, my friends and retainers.  Gone."  He breaks down.
After a while he looks up in anguish and says,
     "There's an Aurak who seems to be in charge.  He's had his
minions scouring the Keep.  He's looking for my dragonlance!
He'll never find it.  It's hidden.  Hidden very well.  Nobody can
find it.  But I'll tell you.  Yes.  Yes, I'll tell you.  You're
from Caramon?  Of course, of course.  Look on the sixth story.
As you come up the stairs you will see a door directly ahead of
you.  The wall to the left of that door has a secret door in it.
The Dragonlance is in there."
     He look around in fear.  "Where are they?  Where?  They were
here.  I saw them.  My little ones.  Where are they?  I must go,
I must.  I will slip out down the stairs.  Goodbye, goodbye.  Get
the lance!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 37
----------------
     Stage Three is about to begin.  The good armies are marching
on Sanction, and our friendly 'adventurers' are still trying to
figure out how to get the Dragonlance.  sir Lebaum has been
working in the arena of Duerghast.  He will begin to raise his
army of undead as soon as the good armies are in position.  We
anticipate that this will take another day or two.  I have Blue
Dragons stationed at Duerghast to guard the eggs and Red Dragons
are waiting to give me word when he has finished his
preparations.  When I hear from him the final stage will begin.

JOURNAL ENTRY 38
----------------
     "They're back...back there...who, look out!  No, no, no.  I
stabbed one but it took my sword.  I couldn't get it out of it's
body!  Caramon!"
     His eyes clear for a moment and he becomes more lucid.
"Listen to me," he says, "they've captured Caramon.  Most of our
party has been wiped out."
     He suddenly jerks about.  "What's that!  Get them!  They've
got Caramon.  Find him!  I'll find him.  North, north and west
and south.  Traps!  Back up...go back now.  Quiet, quiet,
quiet... look out! above you! oh no, oh no, oh no..."
     He gets a sly, slightly mad conspiratorial look on his face.
"I saw a money chest in a room to the east.  I'm gonna get it and
I'm set."  He looks around and leans toward you, "You wanna help?
Huh, what d'ya say?"
     The terrorized look comes back.  He screams and gasps in
terror.

JOURNAL ENTRY 39
----------------
     The great ship lists to port and seems to pause in silent
anticipation.  The sailors jump off like rats.  In the distance,
and hump of moving water marks the place where the gigantic whale
swims away.  Your boat starts rocking as the waves from his blow
to the ship finally reach you.
     The ship finally slips quietly under the waves.  The orb
fragment--and the Vampire--slide down to their final resting
place.

JOURNAL ENTRY 40
----------------
     The road back to Solace is filled with the refugees of
Krynn.  Wretched individuals and families carry what possessions
they can on their backs or on small pushcarts and wheelbarrows.
They all scan the sky with fear; waiting for the horrific sight
of dragons flying out of the sun to breath death onto the
miserable line of humanity.
     The Second Flight of the Dragons has devastated Krynn.
Sanction is a smoldering lake of lava.  Garath a pile of melted
stone, and Neraka has been blasted into oblivion.  Only Jelek and
Kernan survive in this part of the continent; and they have
become
enclaves of evil.  Jelek has become Sir Lebaum's base of
operations, where he continues his experiments with the undead.
Kernan has been taken over by Myrtani and his horde of newly
created draconians.

JOURNAL ENTRY 41
----------------
     The prisoner looks at you with agony as another shudder
wracks his body.  Suddenly, his flesh seems to split and a foul
odor permeates the room!  You start to gag and cough in the
middle of the stinking cloud.  The door behind you closes and you
hear the bolt being driven home.  You are trapped!

JOURNAL ENTRY 42
----------------
     The prisoner is extremely weak.  He barely croaks out some
broken phrases:
     "...the Castellan is alive.  He's being held here on this
floor..." "...an Aurak...silver eggs...black dragons...book..."
     He grabs your arms and dies.

JOURNAL ENTRY 43
----------------
     "They have built up a large, wooden structure in front of
the main gates of the Keep.  I don't know what it looks like
inside.  I can tell you that the main gates are in the upper-
northwest corner of the city.  In the middle of the city you will
find a secret door into the wooden structure.  It is currently
being guarded by draconians because it's location has been
discovered recently."  He licks his lips in consternation and
suddenly speaks in hushed intensity.  "Listen, there's a
dragonlance in the Keep.  I know, all of them were supposed to be
sent South but the Castellan was injured during the War and his
lance was brought with him when he returned.  You must find it!"

JOURNAL ENTRY 44
----------------
     "Ah, come on Grag!  You know that we're supposed to guard
the grave of this guy.  The captain's gonna be mad if he sees us
in here.  Uh, but the way, can you buy me a drink?  I'm a bit
short this week."

JOURNAL ENTRY 45
----------------
ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฟ
ณ                                     ณ  ณ    Key
ณ                                     ณ  ณ   -----
ณ                                     ณ  ณ    = door
ณ           Burial Glen               ณ  ณ    x (dunno)
ณ                                     ณ  ณ
ณ                                     ณ  ณ
ณ                    ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู  ณ
ณ                    ณ                   ณ
รฤฤยฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤู  ฺฤฤฤฤฤฟ          ณ
ณ  ณ  ณTav- ณMagicณ     ณ     ณ          ณ
ณ  ณ  ณ ern ณShop ณ     ณ     ณ ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤด
ณ  ณ  ภ=ฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤ=ฤู     ภฤฤยฤฤด ณ        ณ
ณ  =                       ณ  ณxณ        ณ
ณ  ณ  ฺ=ฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฟ  ฺฤฤฟ  ณ  ร=ู        ณ
ณ  ณ  ณWeapon     ณ  ณ  ณ  ณ  ณ          ณ
ณ  ณ  ณShop ณ     ภฤฤู  ณ  ภฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤด
ภฤฤมฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู



JOURNAL ENTRY 46
----------------
     The tree suddenly explodes!  The locket is thrown away from
the enchanted circle.  From the swirling ashes of the explosion
an ominous shape slowly rises.  Vaguely manlike, it's features
are indistinguishable in the thick smoke.  Giant Rats and Mobats
charge out of the impenetrable dust!

JOURNAL ENTRY 47
----------------
     "We've had a lot of unsavory characters passing through town
lately.  The good armies have left us in the lurch and we are
forced to take the law into our own hands in order to protect the
citizens of this town.  Here's the official proclamation."
     'All persons entering Jelek that are unknown to the guards
shall be assigned an escort for the duration of their stay in the
city.  They will be restricted to the public parts of the town.
The burial grounds are strictly forbidden to all strangers.'
     "It's signed by our leader, Sir Lebaum.
     "So, here's a nice young man who'll show you around town.
     "Skyla!  Come over here!"
     He introduces you to a man who looks you over and breaks
into a goofy grin.  His entire aspect seems dignified enough,
until he smiles or begins to talk, then his ancestry is extremely
questionable and you wonder if maybe he hadn't suffered a fall on
his head as a child.

JOURNAL ENTRY 48
----------------
     "Finally, you're here.  I got word that Sir Karl was going
to send someone to check this place out.  I've been waiting for
you for days.  Come with me."

JOURNAL ENTRY 49
----------------
     Sir Karl's dying monologue:

     "They tortured me to get information, but I gave them
nothing.  Killed my guards when they came for me again.  Afraid I
didn't quite make it all the way out.  Things getting dark...Hard
to concentrate.  There are slaves down there.  They must be freed
from this evil place...Remember me to Maya..."  His breathing
stops.

JOURNAL ENTRY 50
----------------
     Draconians!
     I have good news.  I have managed to attain the volume that
we have been searching for all of these years.  The power to
create more of our kind is now in my hands.  Send me all your
eggs along with any mages and clerics that you may have with you.

I'll be at the Citadel of Gargath very soon.  Have the eggs
packed and taken to me within the week.
     By order of Myrtani.

JOURNAL ENTRY 51
----------------
     "The worst monsters our scouts have reported anywhere in the
area are hobgoblins.  Draconians and evil dragons have long since
abandoned this area to our forces.  Still, but a little wary on
your way to Throtl.
     "Also, be sure to report back here immediately, if anything
unusual or dangerous occurs.  This outpost depends on information
brought back by patrols such as yours.  Good luck and may
Paladine watch over you."

JOURNAL ENTRY 52
----------------
     The weapons and armor of Solamnic Knights and their allies
is strewn about the corridor.  All of them are bent or broken and
quite useless.  There is a hole in the ceiling above.  It is
evident that the party was ambushed.  There are no bodies.

JOURNAL ENTRY 53
----------------
     Men discussing a rebellion:

     "I can't believe that we are letting an Aurak dictate what
we have to do.  It's not right.  We created them to serve us, not
the other way around.  At the meeting I'm going to speak in favor
of restructuring this alliance.  Only their slimy blood will
flow."

JOURNAL ENTRY 54
----------------
     A large number of human warriors are gathered here.  One
leaps upon a table and calls out, "Who among you wishes to
overthrow Myrtani?"  As hands raise throughout the room, arches
slip out from behind curtains and fire.  The man on the table
laughs, "Myrtani will be grateful for your identifying
yourselves."

JOURNAL ENTRY 55
----------------
     "They say that there is a Vampire that has been enchanted in
that old tree.  A very powerful mage trapped him in there before
the world was changed.  The only thing that will release him is a
piece of the soul of the mage who trapped him.  The mage is long
dead, however.  The only known artifact that had any relationship
with him is the Locket of Light.  But that disappeared into the
west long ago."

JOURNAL ENTRY 56
----------------
     Sir Karl's last message to Maya:

     "I realize now that I shouldn't allow our differences to
interfere with our feelings.  I suppose at my age it takes a
while to adjust to new things.  Remembering you beauty and
bravery has helped me withstand the tortures they have subjected
me to.  I know go out to gain my freedom.  If I fail, then know
I held you in my thoughts to the end."

JOURNAL ENTRY 57
----------------
     Red Dragon's story:

     "Once when I was young and my scales were sleek and smooth,
I was appointed protector of the Crown Jewels.  Beautiful they
were, glistening in the torchlight.  Many a tasty thief came by
to admire them, but I always kept them safe.  Then the city fell
and the jewels were lost.  Since then I have south them
everywhere.  I am sure they will turn up, so that I can watch
their glittering beauty again.  The crown was the prettiest
piece, golden and encrusted with gems.  Ah, such a wondrous
time."

JOURNAL ENTRY 58
----------------
     "Hello, and welcome to Jelek!  We have recovered so well
from the recent war that we are able to provide you with a guide
that will bow to your every need.  He will direct you to our Inn,
where you can rest in luxurious peace, and point out the exciting
new businesses that have helped to make Jelek the most dynamic
town in all of Krynn."
     He waves of a tall, handsome young man.  "This is Skyla," he
says. "He will be your escort for the duration of your stay in
Jelek."

JOURNAL ENTRY 59
----------------
     "Listen, I've been following you for some time now.  That
Skyla character is the leader of a faction of guards that has
taken over the city.  He looks stupid, but don't let that fool
you.  He knows exactly what he looks like, and he knows how to
use it to his advantage.
     "He takes orders from Sir Lebaum.  Lebaum took over about a
week ago.  It was slow and insidious how he did it.  No word got
out at all and, initially, there was lots of business for our
shops.  Everyone was happy.  Except that now he's cut off all
contact with the outside.  Anyone that comes in here either joins
the guards or is killed, as you almost were.
     "There's another disturbing thing.  I've done some digging
around and nobody has even seen this Sir Lebaum character.  Most
people have never even heard of him.  There was a Knight of
Solamnia of that name that was corrupted by Takhisis many, many
years ago but the legend has it that he died--horribly, they say.
     "I'd like to get into the graveyard and examine his office.
Are you willing to go with me?"

JOURNAL ENTRY 60
----------------
     Message on body of Prison Lord:

     It has come to my attention that the bodies we receive her
in Sanction from your prisons are in a highly deteriorated
condition.  We realize that information must be gained by torture
and that it is a useful way to relax, but I would prefer it if a
majority of the bones remained uncrushed.  I will not repeat this
request.
     Sir Lebaum


JOURNAL ENTRY 61
----------------
     I want you to find the adventurers and put them out of our
misery.  They have served their purpose, now I'm afraid they may
find some way to get word to the good armies.  Eliminate that
threat.

JOURNAL ENTRY 62
----------------
     Message from assassins.  The paper reads:

     We have contacted a traitor at the renegade ogre's base.  We
can slip in unobserved and slay the renegade leaders.  If we are
not successful, beware.  Our spy tells us that the renegades
might try to ally with the forces of good.  Their knowledge of
Kernen makes them dangerous.

     A rough map is drawn on the back:

     ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
     ณ                               ณ
     ณ      Gargath ฿      Ogre      ณ
     ณ                     Base      ณ
     ณ                       x       ณ
     ณ           ฿ Outpost           ณ
     ณ                               ณ
     ณ                               ณ
     ณ                               ณ
     ณ     ฿ Jelek                   ณ
     ณ                               ณ
     ณ                               ณ
     ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู

     Sir Karl then speaks, "The Solamnic Cavalry is already on
the march.  It will not be too long until these first units have
arrived in the area.  We must have information on the enemy
strengths and weaknesses soon.  The Solamnic force will be small
and an ambush could cause them problems."


JOURNAL ENTRY 63
----------------

                        ฺฤฤยฤฤยฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
                        ด  ร  =    ณ        =
                        ด  รฤฤด    ณ        ณ
                        ด  ร  ณ    ภฤฤฤฤฤฤ=ฤด
                        ด  ร  ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู
                        ลลลล
                        ด  ร
                     ฺฤฤม==ด
                     ณ     =
                     ณ  ฺฤฤู
                     ณ  ณ
                     ณ  ณ
                     ณ  ณ
                     ณ  ณ
                     ณ  ณ
                     ณ  ณ          Key
                     ณ  ณ        -------
                     ณ  =        = door
         ฺฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤฤฤลฤฤมฤฤฤฤฟ   ล jail door
         ณ   =   ณ   =       =   * Dragonlance
         ณ   รฤ=ฤด   ณ       ณ
         ณ   ณ * ณ   รฤ=ฤฤ=ฤฤู
         ณ   รฤฤฤู   ณ
         ณ   =       ณ
         ภฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู


JOURNAL ENTRY 64
----------------
     WANTED:  Soldiers to wage the battle against the Solamnic
usurpers of KRYNN.  5 steel pieces when you sign up and a
guaranteed 2 steel pieces a week until the end of the engagement.
See the recruiting officer at the Southern Sanction Inn for
details.


JOURNAL ENTRY 65
----------------
     Draconians!
     I'm afraid that the book that we spent so much effort in
obtaining has turned out to be more important than we thought!
Not only are we going to be able to create more Draconians
without using eggs, but it has taught us how to use the dragon
orb to make our existing Draconians even more powerful!  The Plan
proceeds!
     Death to Solamnia!

JOURNAL ENTRY 66
----------------
     The ogres lead you along a twisting corridor.  They assure
you that the passage is completely unknown.  Gravnak whispers for
you to be ready.  He pulls a lever, but instead of the walls
opening, the floor drops out from beneath you.  Myrtani appears
next to Gravnak and both begin to laugh.

JOURNAL ENTRY 67
----------------
     "I was with the patrol that followed Caramon here.  We ran
into trouble almost immediately.  We were not really expecting
much opposition but...We were ambushed by a large force of
hobgoblins and draconians.  I was knocked out by a blow to the
head early in  the battle.  I awake in a dark corner, alone.  It
took me a while to get my bearing but I finally went out in
search of my companions.  I overheard form passing patrols that
everybody except Caramon was killed.
     "You must help me find Caramon.  He must not be allowed to
fall into the hands of the leaders of this band."

JOURNAL ENTRY 68
----------------
     As the Vampire grasps the piece of orb a deep trembling
shakes his being!  Blood begins to run from his eyes and ears as
a high keening sound forces your party to hold their heads in
anguish.  The Vampire is desperately trying to rid himself of the
glass object.  It will not leave his hand!  Old Rimshanks' spell
of permanent binding is working!

JOURNAL ENTRY 69
----------------
     WEARY TRAVELERS!  Come to the best accommodations on KRYNN!
The SOUTHERN SANCTION INN is open for your business.  We are
located in the southeast corner of the city.
     THE DRAGON'S CURSE is open for business in the middle of
Sanction.  We have the best selection of drinks since Istar sank
beneath the sea.  Non-humans welcome!
     IF YOU'VE GOT THE MONEY, WE'VE GOT WHAT YOU WANT!  While our
inventory had been decimated by the recent war, we are once again
open and offering the finest in magical items available.  As
always, if we don't have it, we will find it or make it.  All we
need is time and money.  GUSMARKEN'S MAGIC SHOP.  Located in the
eastern-central area of the city.  We are the first door to the
right, heading north from the inn.
     THE SHARPEST, MOST DURABLE WEAPONS MONEY CAN BUY!  Come to
our smithy, located just north of the Southern Sanction Inn, and
peruse our fine selection of blades, armor, arrows, darts and
anything else you could possibly need to equip your party.
REASONABLE RATES!
     SO, YOU THINK YOU'VE EARNED THE RIGHT TO ADVANCE TO THE NEXT
LEVEL?  Horgathindorn's Training Hall has worked with the best!
Come see us in the Northeast Corner and see if you've got what it
takes!


JOURNAL ENTRY 70
----------------
     "Listen, I've been following you for some time.  You need to
get to Jelek as quickly as possible.  There are rumors that Sir
Karl is about to attack the town in order to get at the last
Dragonlance that remains in our hands.  Once you arrive, a
resistance worker will join your group as an escort.  Jelek has
become prosperous lately and they are requiring all visitors to
be escorted through the town.  The stated reason is to show new
visitors around the town, the real reason is to keep an eye on
all new-comers and prevent anyone from getting in the graveyard.
Our man's name is Skyla.  As soon as you arrive he will be able
to join your group and help you find the Dragonlance that the
Castellan hid."

JOURNAL ENTRY 71
----------------
     Myrtani is gathering his forces in secret areas around
Sanction.  We won't be ready for a few weeks yet.  My minions
have started gathering materials for my use.  Several graveyards
have been looted already.  Many of them have left the open graves
sites unfilled.  I suppose it can't be helped.  Stupidity has
always been our most dangerous enemy.
     Myrtani has found a Dragonlance!  I urged him to give it to
his strongest warrior but I'm afraid that the draconian doesn't
trust anyone who could hold that much power.  Foolish.  He's
going to hide it away somewhere in Sanction.

JOURNAL ENTRY 72
----------------

    1ST FLOOR         2ND FLOOR         3RD FLOOR
    ฺฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤยฤฤฤฟ ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ ฺฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤฤฤฟ
    ณ     ณ   = รฤฤฤด ณ ฺฤยฤยฤยฤยฤยฤฟ ณ ณ   =   =   ณ
 S  ณ     ร=ฤฤด ณ   ณ ณ รฤมฤมฤมฤมฤมฤด ณ ณ   ณ ฺ=มฤยฤด
 T _รฤฤฤฤ=ด   ณ=ภฤฤ=ด ณ ภฤฤฤฟJAIL   ณ ณ ณ   ณ ณ X ณ ณ
 A  รฤฤฤฟ ณ   ณ ฺฤฤฤด_รฤฤฤ= =ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู ณ ณ   ณ รฤฤฤด ณ
 I  ณ   = ภฤฤฤู =   ณ รฤฤฤู ฺฤฤฤย=ฤฤฟ ณ ณ   = =   = ณ
 R  รฤฤฤมฤย===ยฤมฤฤฤด ณ ฺฤฤฤด   ณ   ณ ณ ภฤฤฤมฤมฤฤฤมฤู
 S  ณ     =   ณ     ณ ณ ภXฤฤมฤฤฤมฤฤฤู ณ      |
    ภฤฤฤฤฤมฤฤฤมฤฤฤฤฤู ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู   STAIRS

    4TH FLOOR     5TH FLOOR 6TH FLOOR  7TH FLOOR
    ฺฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤยฤฟ ฺฤยฤยฤยฤฟ ฺฤยฤฤฤฤฤฟ ฺฤฟ           ฺฤฟ
    ร=ฤฤ=   รฤู ณ ณ ภxม=ู ณ ณXณ     ณ ภฤลฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤฤฤลฤู
    ณ   ณ   รฤฟ ณ รฤฟ   ฺฤด รฤม=ฟ@  ณ   ณ @ ณ @ ณ @ ณ
    รฤฤ=ด   รxู ณ ณ =   = ณ ณ   ภฤฤฤด   ภฤฤฤมฤฤฤมฤฤฤู
    ณ   ณ   รฤฤฤด ภฤมฤฤฤมฤู ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู
    ณX  ณ   ณ   ณ    |STAIRS
    ภฤฤฤมฤฤฤมฤฤฤู
    8TH   9TH   1OTH 11TH
    ฺฤฤฤฟ ฺฤฤฤฟ ฺฤฟ   ฺฤฟ        KEY
    ณ @ ณ ณ @ ณ ภฤู   ภฤู     ---------
    ภฤฤฤู ภฤฤฤู                @ spiral stairs
                               x object
                               = door

    (The x's that appear to be in the wall are really in the room
above.  Such is the limitation of ASCII art.)


JOURNAL ENTRY 73
----------------
     "After the battle I was taken to see a powerful cleric.  He
laughed at my defeat.  They led me to some doors that glowed in
the darkness, opened them with a key that he pulled from his
robes, and took me to a dark temple.  I saw a bronze dragon egg
on
the altar!  He told me that they were going to start the
corruptions again!  Then he had his minions beat me.
     "I woke up here.  If it hadn't of been for the
treachery of a dark elf, and a sneak attack from behind, they
never would have captured me."  He pauses.  "I'm sorry for my
men," he says.  "They had no idea what we were getting into.
Krynn's blood, I didn't know either.  We were unprepared for the
extent of the evil forces.
     "The ambush was a complete surprise."

JOURNAL ENTRY 74
----------------
     Tanis's tale:

     "I had heard of slaves being taken in the area, so I
disguised myself and arranged to be captured.  I have just
managed to free the slaves here, but more are held to the south.
I will organize the slaves here while you free the others.  Then
we will arrange a diversion to allow the slaves a chance to
escape."

JOURNAL ENTRY 75
----------------
     "I am the only one left from the ambush.  I was knocked out
early in the combat.  By the time I came to, the enemy was gone.
Caramon is dead.  I figure that they must have ganged up on him
first.  His was the only body left behind.  You don't want to
know what condition they left him in.  Evidently they wanted to
leave a warning to anyone who comes after him.  It was awful.  I
laid him out as best I could and have been working my way out of
Throtl.  We must get back and warn the Outpost!
     "I don't understand how they could have known that we were
coming.  The ambush was obviously well planned.  They knew
exactly who was with us and exactly how to counter any attack
we could must."

JOURNAL ENTRY 76
----------------
     ...friend has many objects of value for sale...
     ...great frog collection!!!...
     ...sword that seems to be magical, at least undead creatures
are afraid of it...
     ...many potions for sale...
     ...information about the incidents of undead and draconian
incursions in the area...
     ...a beautiful daughter...

JOURNAL ENTRY 77
----------------
     Base Commander's papers.  You find:
     A list of orders authorizing an attack on the knight's
outpost.
     A supply list, consisting mostly of implements of torture
signed by someone known as the Prison Lord.
     The final page is an order to turn all slain prisoners over
to a Sir Lebaum.

JOURNAL ENTRY 78
----------------
     "Now, what do you know about that?  They say that a real
dragonlance has been found in the hills to the east.  It also
carries an enchantment that will force any dragon to your will if
you but wound the best."

JOURNAL ENTRY 79
----------------
     Gravnak's story about the Guardian:

     "The oldest rulers of Kernen ordered the city's mages to
create a deadly guardian for their castle.  How they did it no
one knows, but the magicians gave this thing to the king.  Over
the years it became unruly and was locked in the vaults where it
was kept.  All we know is that an ancient tome in the library
contains a recipe for a salve that will protect the wearer from
the guardian's deadly bolts.  You must construct this salve in
the alchemist's study before you can succeed in passing the
guardian."

JOURNAL ENTRY 80
----------------
     A few days after then, Stage Three will begin.  We have
taken the pieces of the dragon orb that the kender shattered and
have placed them in strategic spots all around Sanction.
Raistlin's research has determined that, under the right
conditions, even a piece of the dragon orb can act as a powerful
lure for dragons.  Furthermore, each piece can be tuned to a
particular type of dragon.  He has been lost to us since the War,
but his dark elf assistant has managed to create the spell out of
Raistlin's notes.  With our captured Dragonlances, we will
destroy all the good dragons that remain in Krynn, and our final
victory will the be all but assured.

JOURNAL ENTRY 81
----------------
     ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤยฤฤฤยฤฤฤฟ
     ณ       ณ   ณ   ณ
     ณ       ณ   = M ณ   KEY
     ณ       ณ   ภฤฤฤด  -----
     ณ       ณ   ฺฤฤฤด  = door
     ณ       ณ   =   ณ  M Meeting place
     ณ       ณ   ณ   ณ
     ณ       ณ   =   ณ
     รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู   ภฤฤฤด
     ณ           ฺฤฤฤด
     ณ           =   ณ
     รฤ=ฤฤฤ=ฤฟ   ณ   ณ
     ณ       ณ   ภฤฤฤด
     รฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู   ฺฤฤฤด
     รฤฤฤ=ฤฟ ฺฤฤ==   ณ
     ณ     ณ ณ       ณ
     ภฤฤฤฤฤมฤมฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู

JOURNAL ENTRY 82
----------------
     "So!  At last, you've come to rescue me.  You know these
things are quite clever.  Not clever enough for me of course.
I've just been improving them somewhat.  Oh dear.  I do hope you
didn't come through from the north...oh, sorry.
     "I suppose you'll be wanting to get me out of here how.  Oh,
there are more people back there.  Strangbourn is around here
somewhere.  He's looking for Caramon.
     "Oh, you want to find him, well that's an interesting story,
you see when we first go together about two weeks ago...
     "Uh, I can help, you know.  Caramon was taken somewhere
south of here.  I've been trying to reset traps in case more
draconians and hobgoblins get here.
     "Why don't we team up, ok?"

JOURNAL ENTRY 83
----------------
     "...the minotaurs have refused to come to our aid.  They are
touchy beasts and I'm afraid that our emissary was less than
diplomatic.  We will try to contact them again but don't count on
having their..."
     The fragment ends.

JOURNAL ENTRY 84
----------------
     "...we have contacted the minotaurs.  They will help us.  I
must go to Gargath.  It is rumored that there is a dragonlance
stored there.  We must secure the keep and find the treasure room
that is hidden there.  The map of the keep shows those places
where we believe the secret door may be located.  Give this map
to your officers and..."
     The fragment ends.

JOURNAL ENTRY 85
----------------
     "The cavernous maw of the great beast is used as the
entrance to the temple.  The dragon's head is being artificially
preserved through magic.  We need the dragon's fangs in order to
complete our spell.  If they can be brought to us we can prevent
draconians from ever...."

JOURNAL ENTRY 86
----------------
ฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟ
ณ                   ณ
ณ     ฿ Gargath     ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ   ฿ Outpost 2     ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ ฿ Jelek           ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ           ฿ Nerakaณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ        X Outpost 3ณ
ณ                   ณ
ณ ฿ Sanction        ณ
ภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤู


JOURNAL ENTRY 87
----------------
     "I am Angar, one of the real guards of the outpost.  We were
overrun about a week ago by a draconian army.  I was coming in
from a patrol when I saw them taking over.  They were
everywhere..."
     He slumps down on the bed.  You notice that he desperately
needs food and rest, but he waves off your help and continues his
story.
     "I hid and they missed me, but they captured most of the
other guards.  They are being held in the outpost jail.  Also,
they're guarding the north side of town heavily.  I think they
might have hostages there too."

JOURNAL ENTRY 88
----------------
     "Just before the Temple of Duerghast was closed, dead bodies
were seen being carried into the arena in the Temple's northwest
corner.  There were hundreds of them.  It has been discovered
that the Death Knight, Sir Lebaum, has taken over the Temple and
has gathered together the exhumed dead for miles around.
     "There is no way that you can get into the temple through
the front gates.  You must get the Shadowpeople's support.  They
have tunnels that cross from the Temple of Huerzyd to the Temple
of Duerghast."  She pulls out an amulet.  "This amulet will let
you through a secret door.  The Shadowpeople will find you once
you enter Huerzyd."


*** end of Journal Entries ***

The TAVERN TALES that you hear in the pubs throughout the game
are relatively unimportant.  A couple are noteworthy, and I've
listed them here.

Tavern Tale
-----------
6)  "The Castellan of Gargath was rumored to be holding a
dragonlance."

A lot of Tavern Tales about opened graves and such.

55)  "The draconian leader is Myrtani.  He's an Aurak."

Always remember, don't believe everything you hear.  Even your
own mother might deceive you in this game.

Damn my fingers are tired.

Oh, and you really should buy the game.  There are a lot of
important rules and such that I haven't the strength or the
inclination to type up.  If you're an avid D&D'er then you
already know all you need to know.  But you get a COOL poster of
the box art when you buy the game.  (Big deal, but hey!)

Watch for upcoming SSI AD&D games from your local PSI site.
COMING SOON:
DRAGONSTRIKE--a dragon flight simulator (go figure)
WAR OF THE LANCE--a strategic Dragonlance wargame (not role-
playing)

Hasta!
SNooPY H. BRoWN
(The H., of course, stands for Harley!)



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
