



CompuServe TEG-9447





 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 1

 INTRODUCTION

 The purpose of this walkthru is to provide you with information about MIGHT AND
MAGIC II, a computer role-playing game from New World Computing. When you play
the game, you assume the identity of some of the characters in the game.
Characters that you create will be referred to as "player-characters." You can
control some characters that are provided with the game; they are called
"hirelings." Any game characters that are not under your control may be referred
to as "monsters" (regardless of what they actually are).

 Player-characters begin the game young, impoverished, ignorant, inexperienced,
and relatively weak. One major game objective is to improve the stats and
conditions of your player-characters. In MMII, you accomplish this by
adventuring in the land of Cron, guiding your characters as they fight monsters
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-9448

and solve puzzles.

 There are several sections to this walkthru. I have tried to arrange them in
such a way that you could use portions of the walkthru to help you without
giving away the whole game.

 The first three parts of the walkthru contain general information to help you
get started and to refer to along the way.

 Part 4 describes various combat options and strategies, resting, and casting
spells. Part 5 describes the outdoor regions and time travel. Towns of Cron,
with a short discussion about the features of Cron in the past, are discussed in
Part 6. Part 7 is similar, providing general descriptions of the dungeons,
caves, caverns, strongholds, and towers in Cron.

 Part 8, "The Cron Gazetteer," lists exact locations for many of the features
discussed in "The Travel Guide" and the "Guide to the Underground." If you are
interested in finding these things by yourself, don't read this part.

 Part 9 describes a procedure I discovered that may allow you to raise a 6th
 !CompuServe TEG-9450

level party to 50th level in less than two hours of game play. Also, the
Interleaves, the coded messages, the translated messages, and a few words of the
Preamble are listed here. I am uneasy about including these things, as they
might compromise the playability of the game (invincibility quickly becomes
boring), but if you use the advice in smaller doses, it may make the game more
enjoyable for you. Remember, you were warned!

 Because I gained much of the information in this walkthru empirically by taking
notes as I played, some of it might not match exactly with your findings. For
example, a fountain that produces random changes in a character's attributes
will probably affect your characters differently than it did mine.

 Any mistakes in this text are mine alone! If you find any, I would be
interested in hearing about them!

 OBJECT OF THE GAME

 Cron (where your characters live) is in danger. One of the major causes is the
death of Kalohn, the first and last King of Cron, in the early years of the 8th
era (a/k/a 9th century, the years 800-899).
 !CompuServe TEG-9452


 Your characters live in the early years of the 9th era. The forces of evil are
becoming stronger. Legends, portents, soothsayers, and nightmares indicate that
Cron will soon be destroyed. If someone doesn't do something, the world will
come to an end. That's where you come in.

 MAJOR OBJECTIVES

 If you don't save Cron, no one will. To do this, you will have to change
history by helping King Kalohn win his final battle. Once you save King Kalohn's
life, he will give you a final quest. The fate of Cron rests solely on your
broad shoulders!

 MINOR OBJECTIVES

 You need great knowledge, great personal power, and the assistance of powerful
artifacts to aid the King. Your exploration of the Land of Cron will bring you
power and knowledge and lead you to the artifacts you need. Along the way you
should try and accomplish certain tasks. Among these are:

 !CompuServe TEG-9454

 1. Fulfill the lesser quests bestowed on you by the more powerful residents of
Cron; increase the strength and wealth of your characters; collect magic items
and ancient artifacts.

 2. Learn how to travel through time (there are at least two ways to do this).

 3. Discover what items King Kalohn needs to win his final battle, collect them,
and deliver them to the King (just in time)! Aiding strangers in peril may prove
rewarding, perhaps gaining you a friend, a valuable item as a reward, or a
willing companion-in-peril.

 4. Explore all, overlook nothing, and keep meticulous records! Decipher the
messages, solve the mysteries, and destroy evil wherever you find it (unless you
yourself are evil, in which case just destroy anything you want!).

 CREATING CHARACTERS

 Creating characters is fun, and important as well. Care in the creation of your
characters will make your early adventuring more interesting and enjoyable.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9456

 ATTRIBUTE SCORES

 A brand new character is defined by his computer-generated scores in seven
attributes, such as strength, speed, IQ, etc. The attribute scores range from 3
to 21.

 CHARACTER TYPES

 There are eight professions, or "character types" available to MMII
player-characters, depending on the attribute scores of each character. For
example, the profession of Knight requires high Strength.

 In MMII you build a character from the original seven attribute scores,
swapping them between attributes until you are satisfied. As you swap
attributes, the computer will tell you for which professions the current
character is qualified. If no combination of the present scores interests you,
just press <ENTER>, and a new set is available.

 Look for sets of scores with only one less then 10 and at least two above 16
(my personal recommendation). Don't wait for Superman; you can increase a
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9457

character's attributes during the game.

 Below are some guidelines for distributing attribute scores:

 1. Use the highest score for endurance. Endurance helps determine how many hit
points a character starts with, and how many are gained as each new level of
experience is earned. Poor endurance leads to early deaths (and costly
resurrections).

 2. Allocate a high score to speed. For low levels characters, a high score in
speed can significantly increase armor class, but there is an even better reason
to be fast. In many confrontations, the slower party will be wiped out before
they can even act. Try to make sure that you are not the slower party!

 Now allocate the rest of your scores, depending on what type of character you
are trying to create.

 CONSIDERATIONS WHEN CREATING CHARACTERS

 A party of adventures in MMII is limited to eight characters, with a maximum of
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9459

six player characters. Hirelings may be used to fill out the roster; however,
you aren't forced to use eight characters. You may wish to try your luck with
only one. Also, if you like, your party could consist entirely of hirelings,
although they will have trouble buying and selling things, visiting Murray, and
even resting! When you are just starting out, you should try and take as many
character types as possible, because most of them have some non-overlapping
skills (I feel Ninjas and Barbarians are redundant and almost never use them).
As your characters begin to advance, you may decide you can do without certain
character types in your party; then, you can substitute other characters.

 For a low level party, I recommend (in this marching order): Knight, Paladin,
Thief, Cleric, Sorcerer, and Archer. My feeling is that the character in
position 3 gets hit more often than the one in position 4, although I don't have
stats to prove it.

 With higher-level characters (say above 25th level), I generally use the
following party: Paladin, Paladin, Paladin (Sherman), Cleric, Archer, Archer,
Sorcerer, and Sorcerer (Mr. Wizard).

 I find with high-level opponents that a Paladin's ability to throw spells makes
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9461

him more useful than a Knight (although there is a high-level Knight resting in
the Middlegate Inn just in case).

 I don't use a Robber any more. I found a trick that lets me use an Archer to do
the Robber's jobs (open doors, disarm traps) safely (see Part 3), and I use the
Archer in position 5 to act as a Robber. Stick around for the hints section to
see how to do this!

 CUSTOMIZING YOUR CHARACTERS

 Once you have finished adjusting attribute scores, you get to choose several
more characteristics for your characters: Profession, Race, Sex, Alignment, and
Name. During much of the game, none of these characteristics will matter, but
there are situations that can make any of these important. For example, there
are places where males can't go that females can, where elves are not welcome,
and places where evil is not tolerated. Make sure you are prepared for these
situations by rolling a wide range of characters and using them occasionally.

 EQUIPPING YOUR CHARACTERS

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9463

 Early in the game, your prime goal should be to increase the armor class of
your characters. Buy the best armor you can, and equip the front row first; when
you find or buy better armor, let the old armor filter back to the characters in
rows 2 and 3. When you get better armor for them, transfer their old armor
toward the back of the party (if the other characters can use it).

 Your party can buy and sell armor and weapons at the local Blacksmith Shop.
Blacksmiths (and most other merchants in the game) will not deal with hirelings,
so your player-characters will have to buy and sell for them.

 If one member of your party has the secondary skill of "Merchant," you will get
better prices whenever you deal with a blacksmith (or any other merchant).

 ARMOR

 Most character classes are limited in the types of armor they can use. Not all
character types are allowed to use shields or helmets. Listed below are the
types of (non-magical) armor in order of protection (from best to worst), and
the character types that can use each type. The character types are shown next
to the best armor they can wear; each type can wear any of the armor listed on
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9465

lower lines.

 A letter after a character type indicates whether that type can use a helmet
(H), shield (S), or both (B). Archers, Ninjas, and Sorcerers are not allowed to
use either helmets or shields.

 Plate Armor - Knights (B), Paladins (B)
 Plate Mail
 Splint Armor - Clerics (B)
 Chain Mail - Archer, Robber (S)
 Ring Mail - Ninja
 Scale Mail - Barbarian (B)
 Leather Suit
 Padded Armor - Sorcerer

 WEAPONS

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II recognizes two classes of personal weapons: missile weapons
and hand-held weapons. A missile weapon has two parts, a launcher (bow, sling,
blowgun) and an expendable missile (arrow, stone, quarrel, dart). You are not
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9467

allowed to throw weapons (e.g., a spear is not a missile weapon).

 There are two categories of hand-held weapons: one-handed and two-handed
weapons. Two-handed weapons generally do more damage than one-handed weapons,
but characters equipped with shields can't use two-handed weapons.

 Classes that can't use shields (Archer, Ninja, Sorcerer) should use the best
two-handed weapons they can get. Robbers cannot use two-handed weapons, so they
should carry a shield.

 For the other classes (Knight, Paladin, Cleric, and Barbarian) you have to make
a choice between the additional damage done by a two-hand weapon and the
additional protection offered by a shield.

 TOOLS

 Low-level characters should carry some tools. Often a tool can be substituted
for a spell or ability that low-level characters haven't developed yet. For
example, a Thief's Pick will enhance your Robber's chances to safely open locks
and disarm traps, in effect allowing him to operate as a higher-level Robber.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9468


 THE INN

 Newly created player-characters begin the game in the Middlegate Inn, in
Middlegate Town. New characters are almost broke and always need to buy
equipment. Fortunately, there is no charge for staying at the Inn.

 When you select "Go To Town" from the options menu, the guest book from the
Middlegate Inn will be displayed. To begin an adventure, you must select a party
of characters and leave the Inn.

 No game time passes when all your characters and hirelings are guests at an
Inn. Characters and hirelings leave the Inn with the same status as when they
checked in (no changes in equipment, age, or health). If you are unable to help
a sick, injured, dead, or eradicated party member, leave that character at any
Inn until you are able to help.

 Saving the game is done by staying at any of the Inns. If your entire active
party dies during game play, your party will revert to the status it had the
last time you entered an Inn. When you are playing with low-level characters,
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9470

you should save the game often. This may seem like a waste of time, but if you
don't do it, you may waste hours redoing parts of the game!

 KEEPING A "BANKER"

 Many players (including me) like to create one or more characters strictly to
use as "bankers." Bankers are characters that rarely leave the Inn and almost
never go on expeditions. Instead, when a party returns from an expedition,
portions of the treasure are transferred to the banker for future use.

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !




CompuServe TEG-9472




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 2

 OVERALL GAME PLAN

 While there is no single correct way to play the game, if you are interested in
winning, this section will provide you with a general game plan. If you find the
play more interesting than the winning (as I do), the game plan isn't important;
sooner or later you will have accomplished all the goals anyway, and when you
decide to win, you should be ready to do so.

 STARTING OUT

 Create good characters, but don't be a fanatic about it since you can improve
them later. Equip them as quickly as you can. Make increasing their Armor Class
your highest priority. You should stay in Middlegate until you start to feel
it's too "small town" for you.
 !CompuServe TEG-9473


 LEARN MAP MAKING!

 Find the Cartographer and learn Cartography. This will allow you to map the
areas you visit. To examine the map, press the "M" key.

 EARLY QUESTS

 Once you have reached 3rd or 4th level, perform the mini-quests that Nordon and
Nordonna ask you to do for them. This will gain you valuable experience, help
you get a useful spell, and provide you with another mini-quest which will make
the game easier to play for as long as you wish to play. (For exact details, see
Note 1.)

 BUILDING STRONG MINDS IN STRONG BODIES

 You should be ready to start exploring more of Cron by this time. Before you
venture out, members of your party should be learned in the skills of mountain
climbing and path finding (both skills available in Middlegate), and they should
also be trained in the skills of Crusader and Navigator (available in Tundara).
 !CompuServe TEG-9475


 LOCAL EXPLORATION

 Middlegate is in Region C2, which has some interesting features. Thorough
exploration of this area should help you obtain another useful spell (or two, if
you decide to investigate the cave), and provide you with some information to
puzzle over as you continue to play.

 The first time you leave Middlegate through the town gates, you will be greeted
by a being who claims to be your guardian Pegasus. Pay attention to his words
because he can provide you with a yearly income of 100,000 gold, if you learn
his name and find out where he lives. The skill of Linguist is useful in
learning his name (details in Note 2).

 OTHER TOWNS AND CAVERNS

 Explore the other towns and the caverns beneath them. Take detailed notes of
the things you find, especially the clues scattered here and there.

 You will find clues that describe the Red, Yellow, and Green Interleaves; make
 !CompuServe TEG-9477

sure to note these. As you explore Cron you will come upon signs that say things
like "Yellow Message 1"; note all these messages, and when you have them all,
use the Interleaves to decipher the Red, Yellow, and Green Messages.

 The Messages will provide you with more information on your actual mission in
life (if you decide to accept it): saving Cron.

 Just as a reference, the locations of the Messages and Interleaves may be found
in "The Cron Gazetter" (Part 8).

 There is no reason to hurry at this point; Cron will last long enough for you
to save it. Tour the country, see the sites, earn more experience, and collect
more treasure.

 If you have the Clerical Spell C 2-3 (Nature's Gate) by Nature's Day, good. But
if you don't, don't worry because Nature's Day comes once a year.

 GETTING INTO GEAR

 Along about 7th or 8th level, you should start paying a little more attention
 !CompuServe TEG-9478

to Cron's future (if you want). Start visiting the castles, and take on a few of
the Quests you are offered. Visit Pinehurst and help Peabody find his lost pet.
This gets you access to the "WayBack Machine." Go back to the 8th Era and visit
Castle Xabran. Learn where to find spells and hirelings. During one of these
visits to Xabran, retrieve the valuable magic items that are stored there (see
Note 3).

 Some time along the way, win a Triple Crown of each color, and purchase a key
of each color.

 Each of your characters should complete a Jurors' Quest (maybe take some
hirelings along as well). Although they seem very difficult and dangerous, with
a little planning you can accomplish them with level 12 characters.

 Once your party has completed its Jurors' Quests and won a Black Triple Crown,
go to Luxus Palace Royale for an audience with Queen Lamanda. She will reward
you and provide you with a new mission.

 If you have explored enough, you have probably encountered the ranting wild man
who loves Cupie Dolls. If you take him a Cupie Doll, you might be surprised as
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9480

he helps you to become a better person. This isn't absolutely necessary, but the
better your attributes are, the longer you will live.

 THE ORB

 By now, you should have some idea of the magic items that you need in order to
win the game. In order to get the Orb, you will need to find some ancient items
with funny, hi-tech-sounding names, and use them to actually take possession of
the Orb (see Note 4). Then, you will encounter a problem that baffles almost
everyone who plays the game: How the heck do I get it home?

 Well, do some brainstorming, check out your hirelings and their capabilities,
and don't dismiss any ideas that sound useful (see Note 5).

 WHAT ELSE DO I NEED?

 Isn't that enough? No, you're right: it really isn't enough. You need four more
magical talismans, and to get them, you have to give up four that you already
have. These new talismans can only be found in the various Elemental Planes; so,
now you need to learn the spells that let you enter these Planes and continue to
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9482

live. Good Luck!

 Finally, you have all of the wondrous magic items you need to help the king. So
now it's time to....

 SAVE THE WORLD

 Find the King before he gets toasted by the Mega-Dragon, and give him the magic
items you worked so hard to collect. For a short time he will be too busy to
thank you, but once he defeats MagillaBreath, you can return to current-day
Cron, where King Kalohn and Queen Lamanda will greet you as Saviors of the World
and Heroes of the Realm, won't they?

 Sure they will, and the "check's in the mail!" No, you have one more mission to
perform. Return to Square Lake, use the secret password to enter the Square Lake
Cave, battle your way through the endless corridors, slaughtering countless
monsters, until you reach the door guarded by 666 Devil Kings. Don't fight them
or you'll lose and have to do it over again!

 Once you've passed all of these obstacles and reached your destination, you
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9484

will be invited to solve a cryptogram. The encryption scheme used for this
puzzle is simple: Each letter in the encoded document represents an unencoded
letter in the original, in a 1-to-1 correspondence.

 You have a time limit, though; the "End of All" is approaching. If you don't
solve the puzzle soon, Cron blows up, you'll need to return to the Inn, and try
again. The same message will be encoded, but the encryption scheme is changed;
the answers you have from your last try aren't valid, so you have to start over.
(Depending on your computer, there may be a way to "cheat" here. See Note 6.)

 Once you have the code, you have to encode something in the same code you just
deciphered and then, finally....

 You win!

 QUEST NOTES

 If you want to figure things out for yourself, don't read these!

 NOTE 1
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9486


 Nordonna suggests that you use the Portals to visit each town, and while you
are in a town, to visit the Temple in that town and make a Donation.

 Actually the order doesn't matter, but you do need to use the portals. Once you
have donated at the fifth Temple, you will find an iron coin. Throwing this iron
coin into a specific fountain will allow you to find a Castle Key.

 The Castle Key will allow you to go into the various castles in Cron without
having to kill the Castle Guards every time you drop by.

 NOTE 2

 You can learn Meenu's name in C3. He hangs out at B1 (9,9). The only direction
you can approach him from without magic is the north.

 NOTE 3

 The magic items you need to retrieve from Xabran are the Air, Earth, Fire, and
Water Discs. You later take these to the respective Elemental Planes, where you
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9487

exchange them for the 4 Talons (again Air, Earth, Fire, and Water).

 NOTE 4

 In order to pick up the Orb from its current resting place in Dawn's Mist Bog
Resort, you need to have the A-1 Todilor, J-26 Fluxor, M-27 Radicon, and N-19
Capitor with you. These must be carried by the party member in position 1.

 NOTE 5

 Give the Orb to a hireling and dismiss him.

 NOTE 6

 Computers that run PC-DOS or MS-DOS have a "Pause" or "Hold" button, which,
essentially, stops the computer until you press it again. I pressed this button
and worked out the cryptogram. The first time I typed in the answer, I made a
typo; so, I paused again until I was sure it was right before reentering it. (It
was right and extremely anti-climactic.)

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9489

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !




CompuServe TEG-9490




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 3

 IMPROVING YOUR CHARACTERS

 In order to win MIGHT AND MAGIC II, your characters should be about 35th level;
however, it takes lots of combat to raise your characters this high. In order to
speed this process up a little, here are some ways of getting experience that
involve little or no combat. I call this "free" or "cheap" experience, even
though it may be expensive in terms of gold.

 FREE EXPERIENCE

 There are two sources of experience that require absolutely no combat: the
hermit Mark in C1, and the Gourmet in A3.

 Mark has lost his keys. He will reward your party with 10,000 experience points
 !CompuServe TEG-9491

for their return (visiting Mark without his keys may be deadly).

 The Death Spider in A2 has found Mark's keys. If you answer her riddle
correctly, she will give you the keys. If you answer incorrectly, not only will
she keep the keys, she will attack you.

 The Gourmet will discuss food with another gourmet, and after the discussion,
awards the other gourmet 100,000 points. In order to become a gourmet, a
character must sample all of the meals available in all of the Taverns of Cron.

 These experience points cost you gold, and eating all of those meals may have
unpleasant repercussions in the future; however, the experience points are
gained without combat.

 CHEAP EXPERIENCE

 The minimal fighting involved in gaining Cheap Experience may be avoided
altogether if you're clever.

 The four Bishops of Battle are imprisoned in the four castles of Cron, and they
 !CompuServe TEG-9493

will reward your party with experience if you are able to free them. The amount
of experience depends on the color of the Bishop you release.

 You will need colored keys to release these Bishops, and you will have to
explore the castles to find each prison. You may have to fight some castle
guards to actually get to the prisons, or you may be able to avoid the guards.
If you happen to have won a Triple Crown of the same color as the Bishop, he
will reward you even more highly.

 Lord Slayer (Castle HillStone, D4) and Lord Hoardall (Castle Woodhaven, C1)
have a number of minor quests they would like your party to perform (the Lords'
quests are not minor).

 These quests require that you either kill a specific type of monster (for Lord
Slayer), or that you return with a specific item (Lord Hoardall). They are
included as "cheap experience" because you can complete them one at a time as
part of your normal activities, without going out of your way. After you have
completed one of these quests successfully, the grateful Lord will provide your
party with experience.

 !CompuServe TEG-9496

 There are a number of ways to gain experience that allow you to accurately
estimate your chances of success before taking any risk.

 The Battle Arenas: Middlegate, Sandsobar, and Atlantium have battle arenas,
where you can arrange to fight for a reward. You will always fight the same
number of opponents as you have party members, and you have some influence over
the strength of the opponents you will face.

 Tickets are available in most blacksmiths, and the color of the ticket and the
Arena you use it in will determine how tough your opponents will be. The
Colosseum in Atlantium provides the most dangerous monsters, but balances the
greater risk with greater rewards!

 Lord Haart's Quest: Lord Haart, who maintains a castle in B2, would like you to
visit the past and recover two family heirlooms: Spaz Twit's Phaser, and the
Long One's +7 Loincloth. If you know where Spaz and the Long One hang out in
their respective centuries, this is a relatively easy quest.

 The Triple Crowns: If you win a red-ticket combat in each of the three battle
arenas, you will win a Red Triple Crown. Winning a Black Triple Crown is
 !CompuServe TEG-9498

necessary to win the game. When you free a Bishop of Battle, his rewards will be
greater if you have won a Triple Crown of his color.

 The Lords' Quest: When Lord Slayer and Lord Hoardall send you on quests, you
may select the Lords' Quest. Lord Slayer wants you to defeat the Envoys of Evil,
while Lord Hoardall wants you to collect the three Ancient Swords. These Quests
are definitely dangerous, but they will reward you well.

 The Jurors' Quests: Before you can win the game, each of your characters will
need to complete a Jurors' Quest. There are clues to the Jurors' Quests in
Atlantium, and you can actually listen to the Jurors on Farview Mountain, in D2.

 Once your characters have completed their Jurors' Quests and won a Black Triple
Crown, visit the Queen in Luxus Palace Royale and she will reward you.

 DANGEROUS EXPERIENCE

 The most dangerous outdoor square on the map is E2; however, some of the best
treasures and the most experience can be gained by winning fights in E2. Nothing
in E2 ever falls under the free, cheap, or limited risk categories of
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9500

experience. If you venture here, you will get at least as much danger as you
bargained for!

 Among the toughest monsters in Cron are the Cuisinarts (B2). While you won't be
able to beat them for a long time, once you do beat them, you will gain a lot of
experience very quickly. Don't forget to search afterwards: Some of the best
treasure in the game turns up here!

 Perhaps the most dangerous Dungeon is the Dragons' Dominion (D1); there are 100
dragons there, with treasure and experience to match. The Ancient Dragon who
rules the Dragons' Dominion guards one of the single best rewards in the game!

 ENHANCING ATTRIBUTES

 Your characters are not forever restricted to the attributes you rolled for
them when they were created. MMII provides several ways of raising the various
attributes.

 In most of the dungeons, caves, and caverns throughout Cron, there are ways to
enhance your attribute scores permanently (unlike a fountain or a potion, whose
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9501

effects vanish shortly). There are generally two ways in each dungeon to change
your attributes: an attribute modifier, which trades points in one attribute for
points in another; an attribute enhancer, which raises your score in a selected
attribute.

 Usually the description of the attribute-changing device (often a fountain)
will contain a clue to the effects of the device, although it may be difficult
to decipher the clue until after you have tested the device. For example, a clue
that says "Slow but steady wins the race" might indicate that the device will
lower your speed but raise your endurance.

 Many of the devices for changing attributes will not work on all of the races
or classes of player-characters. For instance, a device that trades IQ for
Personality might not work on Half-Orcs.

 There is usually an upper limit on the effects of these devices. For instance,
there is an Intelligence Enhancer under Atlantium, which will increase your
intelligence to a maximum of 50 points. The effects of these devices are only
noticed after you rest. Many of them will work on you several times, until your
attribute has reached the maximum for that device.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9503


 THE CIRCUS

 Visit the Circus and play some of the Carnival games! Normally all you win is a
Cupie Doll, but that Cupie Doll can help you become a better person! Somewhere
in Cron is a crazy old coot who loves Cupie Dolls, and gives away rewards that
are all out of proportion to his present! Give him a Cupie Doll and follow his
directions, and you can start on your way to raising all of your attributes to
levels even some deities can't reach! Remember that changes to your attributes
are not apparent until after you rest.

 You can visit the circus as often as you like (until they leave for the year).

 IMPROVING ATTRIBUTES WITH MAGIC

 There seems to be no permanent way to raise attribute scores over 100; however,
there are a number of magical ways to temporarily raise your attributes.

 The Greatest Fountain (E2) will raise all your attributes to 200 until you rest
or finish one battle, whichever comes first.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9505


 There are a number of potions and magic items that can also increase your
attributes. Most potions lose effect after one battle or rest. Magic items, on
the other hand, affect you as long as you are equipped with them.

 Many types of arms and armor increase your strength (apparently, there are some
versions of the game where this particular function doesn't work). There are
weapons that will increase your other attributes. Examples are: Speed (Fast
Cutlass), Personality (Holy Cudgel), Intelligence (Genius Staff), Luck (Chance
Sword), and Accuracy (True Axe). The greater the magical bonus of these weapons,
the higher they will raise your attribute score.

 Using items, it is possible to raise your attributes to above 200 points, but
you should be careful _not_ to go above 254 points; the Rest function doesn't
seem to be able to deal with attributes of 255 and up. (On my system, the
program locks up and I have to reboot.)

 There may be some kind of curse associated with using items and magic to raise
your attributes. There have been occasions when my characters used an artifact
to raise an attribute (usually Intelligence), and when they removed that
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9507

artifact, the attribute was lower than when they started (occasionally dropping
to 0!). I have never determined for certain why this happens. It may be helpful
to have your Clerics cast C 9-4 (Uncurse Item) on the things your party carries.

 IMPROVING HIT POINTS

 In the section on Creating Characters, endurance was mentioned as being the
most important attribute. This is because endurance and level determine the
number of hit points a character can take. You never have enough hit points, but
there are several ways to increase your hit points.

 Always train at the most expensive Training Center you can afford. The more
expensive the place is, the more hit points you will get when you go up a level.
The best Training Center is in Atlantium.

 Many caves, dungeons, and caverns provide ways to increase hit points. This may
be done by drinking from a fountain, pulling a lever, or listening to a song.

 There are two extremely potent ways to increase your hit points. Both are
effective only once in the life of a character, and both are very difficult to
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9509

find.

 In one of the dungeons below a palace, there is a Hit Point Salesman. If you
can find him and meet his price, he will raise your hit points to their
theoretical maximum.

 In the Dragons' Dominion, one of the Ancient Dragons guards an artifact that
increases hit points by 1000.

 There are a number of magic fountains that will affect your characters' hit
points, but they are not all good. For example, a fountain that sets each
character's hit points to 75 is nice for low-level characters, but not so great
if your party averages 200 hit points each. Whenever you drink from a magic
fountain, be sure and check the status of your players!

 There is a potion called "MaxHP Potion." One of the Blacksmiths will sell you a
2-use MaxHP Potion; you can sometimes find a 200-use "MaxHP Potion" in
treasures. This potion temporarily increases your allowed maximum number of hit
points.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9511

 To make use of this potion, your characters should take it immediately after
they rest, and then a Paladin or Cleric should cast C 1-6 Power Cure on each
party member that used the potion, temporarily raising their hit points. This
potion is particularly useful when the party is outdoors, and the Clerics and
Paladins can cast C 7-3 (Moon Ray), as the party may actually be able to gain
hit points as the combat progresses!

 THIEVERY

 I promised you a way to use some other type of character in place of a Robber,
so here it is!

 A Looter's Knife and a Pirate's Crossbow both enhance a character's ability as
a thief, and both may be used by classes other than Thieves and Ninjas. Thus,
when an Archer is equipped with a Pirate's Crossbow, he may function as a Thief.
The higher the magical bonus of the weapon, the better the character will do as
a Robber.

 More importantly, when a character who is equipped with one of these weapons
advances a level in a Training Center, his natural ability as a Robber increases
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9513

by one-percent. From now on, each time this character advances, this ability
goes up just as if he was born a Robber.

 A 35th level Archer who started to learn Thievery when he was 7th level would
have the natural ability of Thievery 28-percent. If he is equipped with a
Pirate's Crossbow +15 and a Looter's Knife +17, his ability will be Thievery
60-percent. He isn't a spectacularly successful Robber, but he's good enough
that you can now afford to leave your Robber at home, and replace him with a
more powerful character.

 This process works as well with other character types; I just chose the Archer
because that is the character type I prefer.

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !
CompuServe TEG-9528




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 4

 Much of your time in Cron is spent adventuring, exp


loring new and dangerous
places or revisiting familiar, but still dangerous places. This section contains
hints that may help 
you survive some of these dangers.

 COMBAT AND OPTIONS

 Most of your interaction with the characters that are part of the 

game (called
"monsters," but this might also include creatures very similar to men) occurs
either just before a combat, or during the course of a combat.

 The display will tell you when you have encountered monsters. The next message
(if necessary) will tell you if you surprised the monsters or if they surprised
you. If there is surprise, you will have to press the spacebar 
to continue. If
you surprised the monsters or if there is no surprise, you will have to decide
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-9656

what you wish to do next. If the monsters surprised you, your only choice is to
fight.

 When your party encounters a monster or monsters, your options are Attack,
Bribe, Hide, or Run.

 HIDE: I have never successfully used the Hide option; it probably works best if
you have surprise on your side.

 RUN: If successful, your party is transported to a safe square somewhere on the
current map. If you run from a creature (instead of a random, wandering
monster), there will still be monsters in the square you ran from when you
return, although they may be different monsters.

 BRIBE: The art of bribery is extremely valuable in Cron. It may help you avoid
encounters that would be fatal otherwise. Vary bribes to suit the types of
monsters you encounter. Man-like creatures usually prefer gold; less intelligent
animals may be bribed with food; some spellcasting monsters will accept gems.

 Any frenzied monster (specifically "Crazed Natives") might be considered a
 !CompuServe TEG-9668

non-intelligent animal; you might try a bribe of 100 units of food (don't fight
Crazed Natives unless you have no other option).

 A group of monsters may accept a bribe in some circumstances and reject it in
others. For instance, you can often bribe Castle Guards at a Castle Gate to let
you in, but you will have a much harder time trying to bribe the same number of
Castle Guards who encounter you in the Castle's Treasury.

 Bribed monsters go away and take their treasure with them.

 ATTACK: This means what it says: Engage the monsters in combat to the death!

 ORDER OF COMBAT

 The order of combat is determined mostly by the respective speed of the
opponents, with modifiers for marching order and surprise. When you face a party
with several different types of monster in it, some may go before some of your
characters and some afterwards, with some acting in the middle of the sequence.
Often when the monsters get to go first, combat is over before you ever get to
take a swing. This is why you should concentrate on making your party faster!
 !CompuServe TEG-9691


 The combat options available to characters are Attack, Fight, Shoot, Cast,
Block, Run, Exchange, and View.

 Some of these actions can be taken without ending the character's turn, such as
"V" for view (allows you to check the current character status display) and "Q"
which checks the Quick Reference display.

 Other actions produce some effect (or fail) after which it is someone else's
turn. Non-violent actions are Block, Exchange, and Run.

 BLOCK increases a character's Armor Class only until the end of the combat
round in which it is used. Block is of little value to a character who goes
last!

 RUN may allow a character to withdraw from combat. The character will not
rejoin the party until combat is finished. When unconscious party members are
abandoned because other party members choose to run, the enemy slits their
throats. Sometimes a character is unable to run successfully, leaving him unable
to take any other action until the next round.
 !CompuServe TEG-9704


 EXCHANGE lets a character swap positions with another character in the marching
order. This may be done to move a wounded character out of harm's way, move a
dead character to the back to let someone else fight, or to allow a character
with no missile weapons to use his hand-held weapon instead.

 USE allows you to try to use the special power of any item your character is
equipped with or carrying in his pack. If an item's special power cannot be used
in combat, the character gets to select another option.

 SHOOT allows a character to use his missile weapon against the opponents.
Archers can always shoot during any combat round, even if they are engaged in
hand-to-hand combat. Other classes can only shoot if they are _not_ engaged in
hand-to-hand combat.

 CAST allows the character to use a combat spell. Any spellcaster can attempt to
throw a spell at any time, regardless of his current combat status (in other
words, a spellcaster engaged in hand-to-hand combat may still use his spells).

 ATTACK/FIGHT: These are essentially the same option, except Attack
 !CompuServe TEG-9706

automatically hits the monster in the front of the enemy party, while Fight
allows you to pick your target. Only a character engaged in hand-to-hand combat
is allowed to select these options, and the target must also be engaged in
hand-to-hand combat.

 During a fight, some of the monsters may decide to run away. Occasionally, all
of the monsters may run away before you kill any of them. If this happens, you
will get no experience and no treasure for that fight.

 It also seems as if monsters can go for reinforcements. Sometimes a message
will be displayed reading, "Monster adds Friends," and suddenly, there are twice
as many monsters.

 The S 6-2 spell (Entrapment) prevents monsters from running away from a combat.
I don't know if this prevents monsters from "Adding Friends."

 COMBAT HINTS

 The "Rule Of Ten": In most cases, only the ten monsters closest to your party
are able to hit you in a given combat round. The others can't reach you, even if
 !CompuServe TEG-9708

you kill the first ten. This may be because they are having trouble climbing
over their casualties in order to reach you. This is useful if you face lots of
opponents who could potentially beat you, but you get to go first in combat. As
long you can kill the front ten monsters in any single round, you will take _no_
damage. While this may seem unrealistic, you will come to appreciate it before
very long!

 There are exceptions to the Rule of Ten, and they are extremely dangerous!
Monsters in the back row don't seem to have trouble climbing over their buddies
who have self-destructed during their attack (Crazed Natives or Carnage Spirits,
for example). With a little bad luck, all 100 members of a party of Mad Peasants
might be able to hit you in the same combat round. As you learn what monsters
are exceptions to this rule, you will learn to avoid them!

 Monsters designed specifically for combat (Warbots) also seem to be exceptions
to this rule. Some powerful spellcasting monsters (like Wizards) seem to be able
to cast spells regardless of any carnage surrounding them.

 When you are fighting outdoors, one of the most useful spells is C 7-3 (Moon
Ray). Moon Ray hurts the enemy and heals your party at the same time. Some magic
 !CompuServe TEG-9710

items are able to create Moon Rays. Putting these items into the pack of party
members who can't use Clerical Spells provides you with insurance in case your
Clerics and Paladins go down first!

 You are often faced with the choice of concentrating your attack on one
monster, or spreading your attacks around among all monsters. If there is one
monster (or only a few monsters that are clearly more dangerous), you should
concentrate on it first. For example, if you encounter a Tyrannosaurus Rex
accompanied by ten Kobolds, you should worry about T'Rex first!

 Characters do not usually die as a direct result of hand-to-hand combat. When a
character's hit points reach zero, he falls unconscious, and most opponents will
leave the unconscious bodies alone until none of your party is still standing.
If you have healing spells, an unconscious character may be able to return to
combat the next round. A character with one hit point hits just as hard as a
character with 200 hit points, so try and keep everybody in action!

 There are always some exceptions: Monsters in a frenzy will hit anything, even
unconscious bodies, and the Mega-Dragon eradicates a character whenever he hits.
The C 7-4 spell (Raise Dead) can be thrown during combat, but C 9-3 (Resurrect)
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9712

can't; so, dead characters may sometimes be returned quickly to combat, while
eradicated characters have to wait until a fight is over.

 If you are facing opponents with area damage spells or breath weapons, try to
make sure none of your characters is unconscious when these spells or weapons
are used. One point of damage will kill an unconscious character, while 100 or
even 1,000 points of physical damage done to a character with one hit point will
usually only render him unconscious.

 SEARCHING FOR TREASURE

 You can search for treasure immediately after combat is over, but if your party
is badly damaged, you should take time to heal before you open the treasure.
Most treasures are trapped, and if the trap is sprung, any member of your party
who was unconscious is now dead. Most treasures are worth the delay.

 There is no need to throw a Detect Traps spell on a treasure; it doesn't
actually help you disarm the trap, and it wastes spell points. If you leave a
square with treasure in it without searching for that treasure, it will be gone
when you return.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9714


 RESTING

 About once in 20 rest periods, you will be attacked while you are asleep. There
is no way to leave a guard awake, so your party is always surprised if attacked
during a rest.

 Low-level parties are usually wiped out if they are attacked while asleep.
Monsters are much more careful around high-level parties; sometimes when they
realize who it is that they tripped over, they all run away before you wake up
(who says you don't get no respect?). To me, this one situation makes the game
worth playing; I've always wanted to be so powerful that people were afraid to
wake me up!

 Spells S 1-1 (Awaken) and C 1-2 (Awaken) are useful if your spellcasters wake
up before the rest of your party. There is also a magic item (the Wakeup Horn)
which will wake your party. Unfortunately, if the character with the horn is
asleep, he can't use it!

 Spell S 6-? (Shelter) and the Magic Item Instant Keep will both grant your
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9716

party an undisturbed rest period, during which your wounds will heal; however,
used spell points don't regenerate during this rest.

 CASTING SPELLS

 There are two types of spells: Sorcerer Spells and Clerical Spells. Sorcerers
and Archers can cast Sorcerer Spells, and Clerics and Paladins can cast clerical
Spells.

 Spells are often referred to in a type of shorthand, using the letter "S" for
sorcerer Spells and "C" for Clerical Spells, followed by numbers indicating
spell level and spell number. So, "C 7-4" refers to the seventh level Clerical
spell Raise Dead; "S 4-6" refers to the fourth level Sorcerer spell Time
Distortion.

 Each spellcaster always carries a spell book, and all the spells that he knows
are listed in the book. When your party is not in combat, you can examine each
character's spell book by selecting the character and then pressing "C" as if to
throw a spell. Press ESC to abort a spell. To examine a character's spell book
in combat, use the "V" command to view that character's record sheet, then use
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9740

"V" again to examine the character's spell book.

 First level Clerics and Sorcerers start the game knowing some spells. They
probably learned these spells during their apprenticeship, which presumably
occurred before the start of the game. Whenever a character learns a new spell,
it is automatically added to his spell book. There are three ways to learn
spells:

 1. Each time a spellcaster attains a new spell level, certain spells are taught
to him at the Training Center. However, the Training Centers never teach all the
spells of a certain level.

 2. Some of the spells the Training Centers don't teach may be purchased at the
Sorcerers' Guild or Temple in each town.

 3. There are some spells that you can't learn in any of the towns. You must
find these spells scattered throughout Cron.

 Many hirelings can throw spells. Some hirelings (notably Mr. Wizard) know all
of their own type of spells. They can't teach your characters any spells, but by
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9742

adding them to your party you can benefit from their knowledge.

 There is a Spell Salesman on the second level of one of the dungeons, who will
teach your party every spell that is available to player-characters.

 SPELL POINTS

 A spellcaster has an attribute called "Spell Points." Casting spells (usually)
requires the use of spell points, and also the use of gems. Some spells don't
cost any spell points, others don't cost any gems, but most spells use up both.
The number of spell points Sorcerers and Archers have depends on their level and
their intelligence, while the number of spell points Clerics or Paladins have
depends on their level and their Personality.

 Any spellcaster who is alive, awake, and has enough gems and spell points can
attempt to cast spells at any time, whether he is engaged in hand-to-hand combat
or not. Depending on circumstances, the selected spell may fail, or if the
selected spell is inappropriate due to spell limitations, the caster may not be
allowed to throw that spell at that time.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9743

 There are a number of limitations on spells limiting when and where they can be
used, and what their effects are. To find out what the limits are for any given
spell, read the spell descriptions in the manual. A spell's limits may prevent
you from casting that spell at a certain time and place, or they may just cause
the spell to fail. For example: Sorcerer spell S 3-4 (Lightning Bolt) can only
be cast when your party is in combat; Sorcerer spell S 4-4 (Guard Dog) can only
be cast when the party is not in combat; Clerical spell C 7-3 (Moon Ray) only
works outdoors.

 PROBLEMS DURING SPELLCASTING

 Probably the biggest single problem players have with spells is in the use of
spells that will not work on monsters in hand-to-hand combat. Not only doesn't
the spell work, but the character who threw the spell not only loses spell
points and gems, he also loses the opportunity to do something useful until the
next round.

 Monsters in hand-to-hand combat are very close to at least one member of your
party, and the wrong type of spell could hurt party members as well as the
monsters. Rather than hurting your party, your spell just doesn't work, and you
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9745

see the message "Spell Failed."

 The description of these spells in the manual states (following the category
TYPE) "Combat, not in hand-to-hand." Examples of this type of spell are:
Clerical spell C 3-1 (Cold Ray); Sorcerer spell S 4-3 (Fire Ball).

 A problem that occasionally irritated me was that I would try to use S 2-1
(Eagle Eye) indoors and S 3-6 (Wizard Eye) outdoors. The effect of these two
spells is similar; the "Protect" display area shows a map of the area
surrounding your party, but neither spell will function in the wrong
environment.

 There are two Clerical spells for dispelling Undead monsters: C 1-7 (Turn
Undead) and C 9-2 (Holy Word). Their effects are similar; if the spells are
successful, undead monsters are eradicated. The number of undead monsters
dispelled by C 1-7 depends on the level of the character casting the spell; C
9-2 dispels all of the undead monsters in the enemy's party. When using C 1-7,
Paladins can apparently turn as many undead as Clerics of the same level.

 Only one of these spells can be effective in a single encounter. Repeated
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9747

casting of the same spell will fail, as will attempts to use the other spell.
Failed spells will cost spell points and gems.

 OTHER SPELLCASTING PROBLEMS

 Spell C 6-2 (Rejuvenate): Don't use this spell! It backfires more often than it
works. There are safer ways to grow younger (take a cruise to a distant resort,
for example).

 Some monsters are immune to certain spells. For instance, throwing lightning at
lightning bugs doesn't achieve much in the way of damaging the bugs, and Frost
Dragons aren't too unhappy if you throw a Cold Ray at them.

 If you encounter a monster who seems immune to the spells you normally use, try
using other spells which cause other types of damage. If you can't hurt a Fire
Elemental with a Fire Ball, try a Cold Ray!

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9749

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !
CompuServe TEG-9750




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 5

 A TRAVELER'S GUIDE TO THE REGIONS OF CRON

 The land of Cron contains many dangers, but it also has many 




natural
attractions. The wise traveler should always be prepared for danger, from flora,
fauna, and natural elements, but shou
ld not let caution deter him from noting
the many wonders of Cron.

 In this travelogue, you will find general descr


iptions o

f the 20 regions of
Cron. For more detailed descriptions of the caves, caverns, dungeons, and towers
of Cron, you should consult the Guide to the Cron Underground (Part 7). Exact
locations of the features described in these two works may be found in the Cron
Gazetteer (Part 8).

 REGION A1
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-9751


 The town of Tundara is situated in the southeastern corner of this region.
Surrounding Tundara are the Ice Plains, which make up half of the area.

 The other half of A1 is an extension of the Plane of Air into our dimension.
Mountains form a natural barrier between the Plane of Air and the rest of Cron.

 Travel in this region is difficult; even experienced navigators lose their way
due to the constant glare from the snow. Novice and seasoned travelers alike are
occasionally trapped by natural disasters such as blizzards and avalanches; you
should closely monitor the health of your party.

 In spite of the dangers of traveling in this region, there are also rewards. In
the mountains, a careful search will uncover the secret of an ancient clerical
spell, and traveling through the extension of the Plane of Air may inspire your
clerics to develop another spell to make travel here safer. It is rumored that a
passage exists that will take travelers back to the mythical "Time of Air."

 Another rumor suggests that in a past age, the area around what is now Tundara
was ruled by a mighty warrior with an invincible magical weapon.
 !CompuServe TEG-9753


 REGION A2

 Almost the entire northern half of this region is covered by the Ice Plains. To
the east there is a small group of mountains; it is rumored there are some very
powerful monsters in these mountains who may hold the secret of an extremely
potent Sorcerer Spell.

 A close search of the ice has been known to turn up valuable artifacts, perhaps
lost ages ago. In the western part of the ice lives the dreaded Death Spider,
who holds a key to success in your near future. Anger her not, however: Not only
will you lose her valuable treasure, you may also lose your life.

 Southern A2 is covered with woods and mountains. Hidden in a valley between
mountains surrounded by forest, there is rumored to be a stronghold filled with
gold, and a magical fountain that makes even the oldest adventurers caper with
joy. Somewhere in the region is another fountain, whose effects are contrary to
the effects of this one. In the southern mountains, the degenerate descendants
of ancient nobles protect their legacy: a magic weapon rumored to have great
value.
 !CompuServe TEG-9755


 The forest thins toward the west. The woods in this region are filled with
patrols of militia and their allies. These patrols guard the approach to Castle
Pinehurst, hold of Lord Peabody. Peabody can be extremely helpful if you have an
interest in the history of Cron.

 REGION A3

 This region is mostly ocean to the south, with a small plain surrounded by
mountains and forest to the north. There is also a peninsula that extends quite
far out into the ocean.

 Here you will find a number of sea-going monsters, and the peninsula is a
favorite roost for flying dragons. A fearless gourmet makes his residence on the
peninsula, and will be generous with those who can hold his interest.

 Near the southern border are the Pearl Islands where the enterprising party can
find treasure and possible allies.

 REGION A4
 !CompuServe TEG-9757


 Most of this region is ocean. Half of it is the normal ocean of Cron, while the
other half is covered by water that has leaked from the other-dimensional
Elemental Plane of Water. It is rumored that passage can be made through the
leak into the "Time of Water."

 Separating the normal and Elemental oceans is a mountain range. In the
mountains is hidden an ancient Clerical Spell, and travel through the Plane of
Water may inspire your clerics to develop a spell to make water travel simpler.

 Several of the Pearl Islands are in this region, as well as the much larger
island where you will find Atlantium. Also, you will find several magical
fountains on the Atlantium island; remember that appearances may be deceiving,
especially in Cron.

 Magical transportation spells don't work well in this region, forcing
adventurers to travel on foot.

 REGION B1

 !CompuServe TEG-9862

 Most of this region is covered with ice, and travel here is difficult, even for
the experienced traveler. Beware of blizzards and snow drifts which can cause
frostbite and more dangerous damage if ignored.

 Standing by itself in the middle of the Ice Plains is a single mountain. Myths
tell of the evil monsters who use this mountain as a place to hide from pursuit,
and a place to prepare for raids on creatures in nearby regions. The monsters
described in the myths are cunning and ruthless, and would probably booby-trap
their fortress extensively...if they actually existed.

 Careful exploration of the Ice will reveal an ancient fortress; a favor done
for its Lord will repay you well. It is rumored that somewhere on the ice lives
a magical creature (while the rumors aren't entirely clear, it is probably not a
goose) who will provide your party with gold.

 In the forest to the northeast, you may encounter a group of lumberjacks who
will treat you well if you can gain their respect.

 Be careful what you eat and drink here.

 !CompuServe TEG-9863

 REGION B2

 This region is composed of a variety of terrain types making it an interesting
place to explore. In the mountains to the west your party will encounter great
danger and even greater treasure.

 This region is split by a road running from east to west. South of the road is
mostly forest, while north of the road is mostly ice plains. Depending on the
time of the year, a number of organizations use this area for conventions: North
of the road in the east you may disrupt a Merchants' Meeting, while south of the
road, you may find OrcCon and the Circus. Visits to the Circus can help you
become a better person.

 There are two secluded clearings in the southern woods. One is of great
interest to Archers, while the other provides a quick method of travel.

 Beware of stuff dripping from the sky, and be careful what you eat!

 REGION B3

 !CompuServe TEG-9865

 This area is mostly open land on the shores of a bay. In the bay is the long,
wasp-waisted Isle of the Ancients. Rumors indicate that the mountains on this
island conceal the hideaways of two ancient, powerful wizards.

 The north shore is dominated by the mighty Dread Knight and his companion, the
Jouster. While the Dread Knight will only compete with Knights, the Jouster will
attempt to slaughter anyone who visits the region. The eastern shore is calm and
inhabited mostly by Druids.

 REGION B4

 Among the most visited regions of Cron, this area also has some of Cron's most
deadly inhabitants. The eastern half is plains bounded by the ocean, a mountain
range, and forest, and the natives are extremely hostile to strangers, often
seeming crazed. They have been known to capture parties and hold them for
ransom, possibly disposing of them if their ransom demands are not met.

 Successful journeying among the natives may help your clerics learn a powerful
spell.

 !CompuServe TEG-9891

 Part of the Isle of the Ancients extends into this region, and in the southwest
waters is Murray's Resort Island. Murray's is a place that should be seen by
everyone, young and old alike (actually, young and old are the same).

 There are reports of fabulous riches to be found in the shallow water along the
eastern shore.

 REGION C1

 Seen from above (by those with access to a Witch's Broom or a Fly Spell), this
region is covered with beautiful green forest. From ground level, the view isn't
so beautiful; indeed, it seems as if most of the undead and unholy monsters of
Cron use this area for their meetings!

 Rumor says Corak's soul wanders through the forest, vainly searching for his
body. Some say the strongest of Clerical spells is also hidden here.

 To the west are two magical fountains that can aid a traveler with his
spellcasting, and Hungry Devils guarding a potent Sorcerer Spell.

 !CompuServe TEG-9893

 The mad hermit Mark awaits parties in the southwestern corner, rewarding
parties that help him while punishing those who won't.

 REGION C2

 This region is home to the town of Sandsobar and is likely to become very
familiar to player-characters. Part of a wide, gentle plain surrounded by
distant mountains, this is a very pleasant area.

 There are three magic fountains here, two of which are at least benevolent for
characters. In the southwest lives a tribe of Orcs who will attack intruders,
but who never leave their protected valley. Here one can also find the Tomb of
Corak, which explains why his soul has never found his body.

 A major landmark is Square Lake and the mountain that rises from it. Your
characters have often heard whispers that the final reward for a good lifetime
may be found in this mountain.

 In the southwest is a magical pit which can prove fatal to inexperienced
characters. To the east are the ruins of a mighty castle which appears to have
 !CompuServe TEG-9895

been destroyed within the last 100 years.

 Clearly, the former residence of a great power now laid low, the ruins of this
castle intrigue most visitors, somehow causing them to feel a vague desire to
return this castle to its former glory.

 Few in this modern era have visited the Square Lake Mountain. Fewer still have
returned, empty-handed, telling wild tales of invisible forces guarding a
majestic entrance; presumably, those who have not returned were able to pass
through this entrance.

 REGION C3

 Bounded by mountains to the north and east, the ocean to the west, and the
Forbidden Forest to the south, this land is the home to many Druids. Indeed,
there are stories concerning the great Druid Stronghold which suggests that it
is somewhere in the area.

 A mountain ridge runs between the open grassland of the Druids and the dark
Forbidden Forest. There are myths that suggest that the Druids themselves
 !CompuServe TEG-9896

created these mountains to prevent an invasion of monsters from the southeast.
The mountains are currently inhabited by tribes of hard barbarians, who favor
neither the Druids nor the monsters, and challenge anyone trying to pass
through.

 There are rumors of a monster-ridden counterpart to the Druid Stronghold, in
the far southeast, where an invasion army is being quartered and trained. The
Forbidden Forest is being patrolled by militia from this Fort. From their
willingness to accept a bribe, it seems that this army is not yet ready to
attack.

 The ferry to Murray's Resort Island leaves from a dock in this region; such is
the power commanded by Murray that a path running directly east from Murray's
Dock to the enchanted road seems to be even safer than the road itself.

 On the north shore of the Druids' grassland, there lives a crazy old coot with
an obsession for an exotic munchie. Although he is practically senile, he has a
store of useful information, particularly about Nature, his deity for the last
500 years (give or take a few).

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9898

 REGION C4

 Once a very pleasant area, this region is now choked with a hot, wet forest,
and much of the region has become an evil swamp. There is very little to draw a
visitor here, and often those who wander into and through the swamp never come
back. Walk on water and levitate spells don't seem to work in quicksand!

 While most of the Temples and religions in Cron hold that it's a long way to
hell, your characters can never be closer to hell than they are here!

 In the early years of the 8th Era, King Kalohn fought the Mega-Dragon in this
region, turning it into the dreary place it is today.

 REGION D1

 As you travel further to the east, Cron becomes gradually more mountainous;
this region is almost completely surrounded by mountain ranges. However, the
largest mountain in the region is not there any longer, having been destroyed by
King Kalohn in one of his battles to save Cron. The former mountain is now a
Dead Zone, and those who enter the Dead Zone quickly sicken. Even characters who
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9923

only take one step into the zone feel its effects, and those with less hardy
constitutions often die immediately.

 The disease does not provide a painless death! The disease produces blisters
that resemble fire burns; blindness and hair loss quickly follow, then death.
Anyone who accidentally enters the Dead Zone requires immediate treatment!

 The forces of Nature are trying to heal this terrible wound to the land, and it
is rumored that on certain occasions, the magic of Nature is enough to
temporarily offset whatever is causing the disease. It is further rumored that
the spell the King used to devastate the mountain may be found somewhere in this
region.

 Because of the mountains, many dragons frequent this region, including the
fearsome Dragon Lord, one of the Envoys of Evil. The Dragons have set up their
own kingdom -- the Dragons' Dominion -- in the mountains to the north. Only the
powerful may enter this kingdom and return alive.

 Barbarians in the mountains guard an ancient artifact, even though they no
longer understand its significance.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9925


 There are several peaceful goblin villages in valleys in the southern
mountains, ruled by a clown named Bozorc. Bozorc likes to hold captives for
ransom, and kill them and whomever brings the ransom. A party that manages to
free some of his victims might make some loyal friends.

 REGION D2

 This land is the site of Luxus Palace Royale, home of Queen Lamanda, the
reigning monarch of Cron. Luxus, in the northeast corner of this area, is still
a magnificent sight, and gives hope that the rest of Cron can be restored to its
former glory.

 Also in this region is the Queen's Orchard, which is guarded by very tough
patrols of the Queen's militia. Raiding the Orchard may be a bad idea.

 An evil Baron, Mandagul, has set up a toll station on the road, and won't let
anyone pass without paying.

 Mount Farview is in the southern portion of this region, and the 12 Jurors
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9927

reside there. Visit them for information for your Jurors' Quests!

 The valleys in the southern mountains hold danger for the unwary traveler. In
the southeast is a portion of the Desert of Desolation. The Desert offers many
dangers, not the least of which is being caught unprotected in a sandstorm.

 REGION D3

 While this region looks placid, it is the home of two of the most evil
creatures in Cron. Their modus operandi is to imprison powerful creatures,
torture them for their secrets, then kill them. More than one resident of Cron
would love to see them dead!

 This area is also inhabited by elusive tribes of natives. Your party will never
encounter the average tribesman, but groups of tribal Shamans often gather here.
Offer them no mercy, because unless you stop them first, they will paralyze your
party and kill all its members!

 A corner of the Desert of Desolation extends into this region.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9928

 REGION D4

 This region is almost entirely swamp, and also the location of Lord Slayer's
Castle HillStone. The Quagmire of Doom, as the swamp is known, is bounded to the
northeast by mountains; on the plain north of the mountain you may find an
interesting gathering of monsters.

 One of the ancient Swords of Nobility is located in this region, guarded by a
group who regard it as the icon of their religion. They will not give up their
treasure willingly!

 There is a steady traffic of monsters into the middle of the swamp.
Observations show that when these monsters enter the swamp, they look slow,
drawn out, and tired. When they leave, they look happy and relaxed. Clever spies
have tried to follow these monsters, but none has ever returned.

 REGION E1

 In this region, Cron and an extension of the Elemental Plane of Fire coexist,
separated by only a thin mountain range. It is rumored that a group of clerics
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9930

escaping from a volcano may have left a spell somewhere in these barrier
mountains, but where and what the spell is the rumors don't stay.

 Traveling through the extension of the Plane of Fire, an alert cleric may come
to an understanding of the dangers of the environment, and fashion a spell to
deal with it.

 The Cron side of the region is extremely mountainous, with active volcanoes and
pools of molten lava waiting to trap the unwary traveler. Beware the effects of
indigenous magical waters!

 Nestled in a valley to the southwest is the town of Vulcania, which provides a
safe haven for parties that visit this region. A little north of Vulcania is a
place that is famous for the quality and quantity of magical gemstones found
there.

 In the farthest corner of this region, intrepid adventures may discover a
passage to the "Time of Fire."

 REGION E2
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-9932


 Virtually all desert, this is the most dangerous region in Cron. In the valleys
of the modest mountains to the north live some of Cron's most vicious monsters,
guarding some of its most outstanding treasures.

 Desert travel is extremely difficult, the more so because of the many monsters
waiting concealed in the sand. It is rumored that the Crawling Envoy of Evil
lives somewhere in this region.

 There are a number of oases where travelers can safely replenish their food
s
upply, and somewhere in the desert expanse is a magical fountain often called
"The Greatest Fountain."

 Visitors to other eras will find that this region has always been the most
dangerous area in Cron; some suspect that the invading aliens found their first
foothold here.

 In the distant past, a Holy One of incredible charisma lived in this region,
surrounded by his disciples. While existing traces of this Holy One have mostly
vanished, he is often referred to in legends in terms of an outstanding physical
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-9934

characteristic, "The Wide One," or perhaps "The Tall One," or even "The Long
One"; each resident of this land tells a different story.

 REGION E3

 This region is mostly desert to the north, changing to plains in the south.
Whispered rumors hint that one of the three Envoys of Evil lives in this area,
and guards a sacred pool that has the power to help a mortal enhance his
attributes to a virtually god-like level.

 Earthquakes, which rock this area frequently, may have uncovered a secret
hideout for many of the villains that roam southeastern Cron.

 REGION E4

 In this land is an extension of the Elemental Plane of Earth into the dimension
of Cron, blocked from further encroaching on Cron by a ridge of mountains. Those
who lived in the mountains have long since died out, leaving behind a valuable
spell.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-10045

 Travel in the extension of the Plane of Earth will show your clerics how to
protect the party in the "Time of Earth." A passage to the Time of Earth is
rumored to exist in this area.

 The town of Sandsobar sits in the middle of a wide plain in this region.

 TIME TRAVEL

 Lord Peabody's "WayBack Machine" can take your party back into Cron's past
where you can (hopefully) alter history. The current society of Cron didn't
exist until recently, so you should not expect to find that everything in the
past has a counterpart in the present, or vice versa.

 The landscape of Cron hasn't changed too much through the eras (except for
Starburst Mountain in D1 and the Quagmire of Doom in C4/D4). You can even find
the sites of towns and castles in the earlier eras, although they are either
empty or populated by random monsters.

 In general, the populations of the past eras are more uniform than the Cron of
the 900s, and encounters are usually more dangerous. In the past, Cron is (was?)
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-10047

populated by lots of Elementals and their cronies, while men and man-like
creatures were the exception.

 The most important past Era is the 8th Era, as this is when King Kalohn ruled
and was deposed. Fortunately for your party and Cron, the WayBack Machine will
allow you to intervene in his final battle at just the right time!

 Another interesting feature of the 8th Era is Mystic Castle Xabran, where all
kinds of useful knowledge is gathered. In Castle Xabran, your party can learn
where to find each missing spell, where to find hirelings, and you can pick up
some of the items you need to complete your quests.

 Most of the visitors to Xabran are extremely powerful, and they are trying to
use the knowledge stored here to increase their powers. It may be wise to avoid
other parties.

 Even though most of the visitors here are dangerous, usually they're here to
study and don't really want to fight. If you inadvertently disturb them, try
bribery before you attack.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-10049

 There is no spell to cast or person to see to go back to the future; however,
if you rest occasionally, you will be drawn to your own time during one of the
rest periods. There is no way to determine exactly how long you will remain in
the past.

 There is an exception to this. If you dismiss your Hirelings, they will return
immediately to the last Inn they stayed at, taking with them everything they are
carrying. A neat trick, eh?

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !







CompuServe T
EG-10051




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 6

 TRAVELER'S GUIDE TO THE TOWNS OF CRON

 The five towns in modern Cron are Middlegate (1st level party), Atlantium
(7th), Tundara (5th), Vulcania (6th), and Sandsobar (5th). All player-characters
start the game in Middlegate (the safest town). Your party should probably not
leave Middlegate before the party members reach the third or fourth level. There
is plenty to keep your interest, even in this safest of towns!

 The note after each town is to provide you with an indication of how dangerous
the town really is. If each of your characters in a party of six is at the
experience level noted, your party should win most (but not necessarily all)
encounters in that town.

 All towns share certain general features. These are:
 !CompuServe TEG-10052


 INN: A place to stay in safety. Also, where you should go to save the game at
intervals. (Note that while you're safe as a guest at an Inn, you may be
attacked in its lobby.) Inns are free.

 BLACKSMITH: You can buy and sell armor, weapons, and miscellaneous items at the
local Smithy. The Smith will also identify items (for player characters only)
for a nominal fee. Some Smiths can sell you a colored ticket. This ticket will
enable you to compete in one of the Combat Arenas.

 TAVERN: In a tavern you can provision your party, have a drink, eat a gourmet
meal, hear rumors, and sometimes meet hirelings.

 TOWN GATE: Each town is surrounded by a wall. The only way to leave or enter a
town without using some type of magic is through the Town Gate.

 PORTAL: The portals provide instantaneous travel from one town to another. Most
towns have two portals; Middlegate has only one. Portals usually provide two-way
transportation: The portal you arrived through can send you back to where you
came from.
 !CompuServe TEG-10057


 MAGES GUILD: Sorcerers and Archers who are members of the local Mages Guild may
buy spells from the Guild. The mage who can sell you Guild membership can
usually be found not too far away from the Guild hall.

 TEMPLES: The Temple is one of the most important features in any town,
especially for low-level adventurers. The Clerics in the Temple will cure you of
any afflictions or wounds, remove any curses on your party, restore your
alignment, and restore life to dead or eradicated party members (all for a
price).

 If you donate generously at a Temple, the Clerics of that Temple may respond by
blessing your party for a day (casting protection spells on your party).

 TRAINING CENTERS: These train you in your profession, allowing you to advance
to the next level -- when you have accumulated enough experience, and providing
you can pay! Spellcasters should rest after they go up a level.

 SKILL SCHOOLS: At these schools you can learn useful secondary skills, such as
Cartography (very important), Navigation, Mountain Climbing, and Path-Finding.
 !CompuServe TEG-10078


 LOCKSMITH: Most towns have a Locksmith who would love to sell you a key. Each
Locksmith has a unique color for his keys. Having these keys will turn out to be
helpful when you are exploring the various castles in Cron.

 COMBAT ARENA: Some towns have arenas where you can fight opponents (selected by
the games master) for experience and gold (if you win). You need a ticket (buy
tickets at most Blacksmiths) to fight in a Combat Arena. Any color ticket is
valid in any of the Combat Arenas.

 A ticket and a key purchased in the same town are the same color; this might
suggest that there is some relationship between keys and tickets.

 Whenever you enter a new town, you should seek out these places, as it will
become important to know where they are.

 MIDDLEGATE

 You can find enough excitement and treasure in Middlegate to keep you satisfied
for quite some time. Virtually every building in this town has a resident
 !CompuServe TEG-10140

monster (or group of monsters), most of whom are unfriendly. The treasures you
find in Middlegate contain mostly gold and gems, with only an occasional magic
item.

 In Middlegate, you will find:

 The Middlegate Inn, where every player-character joins the game. A quiet place,
but you might find some excitement in the back room!

 S. J. Blacksmith, near the Inn. Whenever you shop here, be sure to check out
"Today's Specials"; you can occasionally buy +3 weapons.

 Slaughtered Lamb Tavern, also near the Inn. Rumors heard here could help you
complete your first two minor quests, and perhaps help you find some hirelings.
One of the meals here will help you avoid a fight and find a magic fountain!

 Sleepy's Mage Guild on the North side of Town. Sleepy lives on the West Side.

 Gateway Temple is very close to the Inn. This is a good place, with the lowest
prices in Cron.
 !CompuServe TEG-10142


 Turkov's Training, just east of the Temple. Again, the best prices in Cron.

 The Town Gates are located in the North Wall of town, just west of Sleepy's
Mage Guild. Middlegate is on the shore of Square Lake, on a wide wooded region
surrounded by mountains.

 In northwest Middlegate are Edmund's Expeditions, and Track and Trail, where
your characters can learn skills useful for outdoor adventuring. At least two
members of your party should learn each of these skills.

 Nearby you will find the shop of "Otto Mapper, Esq." where your characters can
learn to make maps (probably the most important secondary skill your party can
have).

 In southern Middlegate live the Wizard Nordon and his sister Nordonna, who will
provide you with rewards if you will perform a service for each of them. Perform
Nordon's quest again, for additional rewards.

 Nordonna's quest may help you find your first hirelings. The information she
 !CompuServe TEG-10143

provides as your reward is very important; if you ignore it, you may handicap
your party throughout the rest of the game!

 West of the Middlegate Inn you will find the Poorman's Portal. The worker at
the Portal will send you to Sandsobar for a price.

 Along the east wall of the town you will find the Travelmoore Travel Agency and
the Combat Arena.

 As soon as your party learns one of the spells that will allow you to cross
bodies of water (Walk on Water or Fly), you should visit Murray's Resort.
One-way tickets are available at Travelmoore. Be sure you can make a map before
going to Murray's or you might get lost on the way home.

 One of the services offered at Murray's Resort will be useful throughout the
game (although young characters should be careful about their ages)!

 You can buy an Arena ticket at the Blacksmith's. This ticket is a very good
investment; it costs only 10 gold pieces but returns 200, and experience points
as well. While it is true that there is some risk involved, what investment is
 !CompuServe TEG-10308

completely risk-free?

 Like any town, there is some chance of hostile encounters on the streets of
Middlegate (these days it's called being mugged). There are also two street
corners where you will always encounter hostile monsters. I wonder what they're
guarding?

 I've left out a few things, like the entrance to the cavern under the city (not
far from Nordon's), the Brain Detoxification Center, Feldecarb Fountain, the
Fountain of Clairvoyance, and Lock and Key, Ltd. You will need to find out about
them yourself.

 SANDSOBAR

 The Poorman's Portal leads to Sandsobar, the second town you should visit. Many
of the buildings here are empty, and most of the streets are fairly safe. When
you're exploring, be very careful when you enter long alleys or the Slums!

 There are lots of undead monsters in Sandsobar, so be sure to bring your
Cleric. Many of the monsters you encounter can throw sleep spells; some sort of
 !CompuServe TEG-10310

protection against sleep might be a good investment before you visit this town.

 Like Middlegate, Sandsobar has the standard facilities:

 Hourglass Inn, in northwest Sandsobar. A quiet, no frills, no excitement sort
of place.

 Red Lantern Tavern in the same building as the Inn, facing onto a narrow
north/south alleyway. This is a rowdy place. The drinks are standard, and the
food is usually okay. The barmaid gives the impression that she really goes for
macho men. Rumors might not contain the whole story.

 Temple Benedictus is across the alley from the Tavern.

 Whirlwind Mage Guild is on the same alley, south of the Temple.

 Sheik Training Arena is one block south of the Inn on the same street.

 Big Al's Accessories is the Blacksmith. His shop is inside the north wall of
town.
Press <CR> for more !






CompuServe TEG-10311


 There is a combat arena called the Monster Bowl on the east end of the main
east/west street in town. There are supply rooms in the corners of the arena.
You can expect some mundane encounters in the supply rooms.

 Portal Dune, near the south wall, provides instant transport to and from
Middlegate. Sirocco Portal, along the north wall, supplies transport to and from
Tundara.

 The Town Exit, in the northwest corner of town, leads out to the Plains of
Peril.

 While getting involved in the arguments of other people might get you killed,
avoiding a brawl might mean that you miss a clue!

 Before you can purchase magical spells at the Mage Guild, you will have to find
a drunken sorcerer. Search the buildings along the west wall of town.

 You can pick up a useful third-level sorcerer spell in the building across the
way from the Monster Bowl.
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-10313


 In the southwest corner of town, your characters can learn some useful skills,
including picking pockets, gambling, and diplomacy.

 In the northeast corner of town are what appear to be several private
residences. While some are empty, the residents of the others do not take kindly
to trespassers.

 Probably the most interesting place (as well as the most dangerous) in
Sandsobar is the Slum, in the southeast corner near Dune Portal. Here, you will
find graffiti on the walls, secret passages, people in trouble, and the entrance
to the cavern under the town. Kindness to strangers pays off; it might even help
you find Star Burst!

 Fitpro Locksmith, near the Dune Portal, will sell you a yellow key.

 TUNDARA

 Tundara is a small town in the middle of the inhospitable Ice Plains. Much of
the business conducted here occurs in the "business regions," which are between
 !CompuServe TEG-10315

the northern and southern walls. The inner town contains most of the facilities
a visitor would use on a regular basis.

 The passage from the town proper to the business regions is concealed along the
inner west wall (ignore the keep out sign).

 The streets of inner Tundara are safe enough to be boring. Most of the
buildings are of little interest to explorers, being empty. There are rumors of
monsters between the walls and inside the outer wall.

 In Tundara, you will find:

 The Tundaran Arms Inn, a normal enough establishment, and very cordial.

 The Enhancement Center.

 Lucky Dog Saloon. Even if you're not hungry, you should examine the menu at the
Lucky Dog Saloon; you never know when you (or someone you meet) may be
interested in munchies!

 !CompuServe TEG-10316

 Thundrax Weaponry, the only smithy who doesn't sell tickets for the various
combat arenas.

 The town exit is in the northwest corner, and leads to the Ice Tundra.

 The La Porte Portal is located in the Inn, and transports you to and from
Sandsobar. The Polar Portal, located inside the Saloon, allows travel to and
from Vulcania.

 You will find both the White Dove Temple and the Mystical Mage Guild in the
business region between the northern walls. Nearby are shops to train you in
some useful secondary skills. Important quests are not just given to anyone, but
are offered to those with experience as a crusader. Getting lost in the
wilderness is frustrating and not funny. A merchant can usually find a way to
get his party a better deal from the stores in a village.

 To join the Mage Guild, search the buildings near the Saloon.

 Your characters can pick up some useful secondary skills in the business region
between the Northern walls, at Sarcen's Denial, the International Market, and
 !CompuServe TEG-10318

Columbus's Sextant. Pay close attention to the promotional spiels you hear in
these places; learning one of these skills will help keep you from losing your
temper (among other things) as you try to explore in the wilderness.

 There is an organization called Frozen Monster between the south walls of the
town. Frozen Monster employees do not like outsiders poking around.

 Recently, the residents of Tundara have been vanishing. It is rumored that a
snowbeast makes its home inside the outer wall. So far, none of those who went
to find and destroy this beast have returned. Darker rumors indicate magic may
be useless against the snowbeast.

 In very bad winters, the residents of Tundara descend into the cavern below the
town for warmth and protection. The entrance is near the center of town,
well-hidden so outsiders can't find it.

 For reasons no longer remembered, there is a third walled-off region bordering
on the Saloon and Inn. No one can say definitely what's in there, but
apparently, those who enter never come back.

 !CompuServe TEG-10320

 The recent disappearance of local residents, especially old Hanna, a citizen of
some repute, has made the local constabulary a little jumpy. If you should
somehow come into possession of any items that the law might recognize, it might
be well to think of some way to conceal them until you can leave town! If you
are caught and you are innocent, don't worry too much; justice will (eventually)
prevail.

 Hanna was investigating rumors of a secret passage into the outer wall,
somewhere on the east side of town.

 VULCANIA

 Vulcania is a harsh and dangerous town, set in a forbidding landscape. It is
rumored Vulcania is built inside an active volcano, and there are actually
places in town where liquid lava can be found (although none of my characters
has ever found these places).

 Don't come here until your characters learn to win fights without magic, as
magic doesn't work in many sections of this town. There is no way to know in
advance if magic will work in a given location; either your party or the
 !CompuServe TEG-10322

monsters you are fighting will have to see a spell fail before you can be sure.
There is one advantage to your party in these non-magical areas: Most
spell-using monsters will try to cast spells several times before they realize
they are in a non-magical area. If you are smart and tough, you can win the
engagement before they start to fight back.

 In Vulcania you will find:

 Belinthra's Bar, a nice enough place, although those who regularly patronize
this establishment are often accosted by riffraff. Occasionally, there are
patrons here who can be enticed into accompanying your party.

 The Training Academy is the second best such academy in Cron.

 The Vulcanian Transport takes you to and from Tundara; the Vulcanian Export
takes you to and from Atlantium.

 The Hotel Four has adequate facilities, but surly employees.

 These places are all close together because they are in a fairly safe
Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe TEG-10347

neighborhood.

 At the Lava Locksmith, you can buy a red key.

 The entrance to the cavern under the town is located in an alley near the
hotel. Also concealed here is a secret door.

 The Blackrock Mage Guild is along a major east/west street.

 The Bestway Blacksmith Shop is along the east wall of town.

 The Vulcan Temple is near the smithy.

 Near the Mages Guild is a small building housing a magical scale. If you've
noticed that your party seems to be more vulnerable to some spells than others,
this scale will help you to figure out why.

 A bit west of the Mages Guild on the same street, you can find the sorcerer who
sells guild memberships.

Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-10453

 There are three shops in town that provide training in secondary skills. The
training offered is especially useful for soldiers and fighters.

 In the Town Square (at the center of town) are four statues that should
definitely be on your "must see" list. However, be careful leaving Town Square
to the north, as you will be entering the wild section of town. If you dare
enter this area, rest assured that no one you meet there will be friendly!

 ATLANTIUM

 Atlantium is the richest, most snobbish, and most dangerous town to explore.

 Along the east and west walls in Atlantium, you will find several statues. The
plaques on these statues will provide you with hints about the quests that each
character class must complete before the world can be saved. You can find
further information in Region D2, at Mt. Farview.

 In Atlantium, you will find:

 The Carriage Inn, a high class establishment with friendly employees.
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe TEG-10455


 Drewnhald Ironworks, not far from the Inn. The most powerful artifacts for sale
in Cron may be bought here.

 The Colosseum, the best and most dangerous of the battle arenas, is in the
center of town. You will receive a better reward for winning a battle in the
Colosseum than in any of the other battle arenas, but you will face more
dangerous opponents, as well.

 The Elusian Temple, the Cabalist Mage Guild (6,4), and the Classic Key Shoppe
flank the Colosseum to the west, while Island Training and the Boar's Tongue
Tavern flank it to the east.

 The Beautify Atlantium Portal allows travel to and from Vulcania; the Mystic
Portal provides one-way transportation to Middlegate.

 The entrance to the cavern below Atlantium is in the northwest corner of town.
Near the entrance to the cavern you can also find the City Jail. Don't enter
this building unless you are prepared to fight your way out!

Press <CR> for more !

CompuServe TEG-10457

 There are three shops here where you can be trained in secondary skills; you
can learn the skills of Linguist (learning this skill can help you improve your
income by 100,000 gold pieces each year!), Athlete, or you can learn to be a
Hero/Heroine (Murray likes heroes).

 In the southern part of town are two rooming houses, one for Knights and
Warriors, while the other is for Sorcerers and Clerics. Many of the rooms are
occupied, and most of the residents aren't very friendly toward uninvited
guests. In the rooming house for Sorcerers and Clerics, be careful if you
encounter a Shaman, especially if you encounter several. If they are teamed with
Illusionists, run, don't fight! A 7th level party will _not_ survive the
encounter!

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
 !CompuServe TEG-9446

MIGHT AND MAGIC II

 1 Introduction, Character Tips
 2 Starting Out, Quests
 3 Character Development
 4 Combat, Rest, Spell Casting
 5 Region Descripti







CompuServe T
EG-10460





 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 7

 THE GUIDE TO THE CRONIAN UNDERGROUND

 Many of the secrets of Cron are concealed in castles, caves, caverns, dungeons,
and towers. This guide will tell you a little about these places. There are a
few towers, which are also included here, as they don't seem to fit elsewhere.

 I. CAVERNS UNDER TOWNS:

 MIDDLEGATE CAVERN

 Located under Middlegate, this cavern is populated mainly by goblins and orcs.
Recovering items they have stolen from Middlegate will earn you thanks and
rewards when you return them to their rightful owners.

 !CompuServe TEG-10461

 Make sure you examine the walls and floors; there are secrets revealed here for
those who look in the right places.

 SANDSOBAR CAVERN

 Under Sandsobar is a dank cave inhabited by rats and thieves and others of
their ilk. During encounters it may be wise to remember that not all that you
hear is true, and that some thieves have honor.

 Here you will find one of the extremely few undead who are friendly to those
still living; his gift should be guarded for later use.

 Note the information you discover here: It may be a long time until you use it,
but it may save you time and frustration on your Jurors' Quest.

 TUNDARA CAVERN

 Located under Tundara, there are four sections to this cavern, along with a
magical device that can be used to travel about the cave. Look to the walls for
clues; look on the walls for red herrings. Don't play the slots unless you know
 !CompuServe TEG-10463

the stakes!

 VULCANIA CAVERN

 Below Vulcania is a hot, dark cave. Watch your step: The floor may be hot!
There are a number of secret passages here. If you endure until the end of each
of these paths, you will be rewarded.

 ATLANTIUM CAVERN

 This cavern is a maze of dead ends and connecting tunnels. At some of the dead
ends you will find statues. Be careful of the statues. some of them will cause
you harm, but remember that perseverance builds character. Figuring out the
various clues and traps here may enhance a character's IQ. Bring your surfboard
when you visit. Information found can help you find loyal companions, and help
you in future Quests.

 II. CASTLES AND DUNGEONS

 CASTLE HILLSTONE
 !CompuServe TEG-10465


 Castle HillStone is the home of Lord Slayer. Slayer is a fanatic about hunting,
and will reward parties that bring him new trophies. Guards circulate freely in
the building, and challenge you if you appear at all uneasy. Slayer keeps a zoo
of exotic animals for his entertainment.

 There are currently two prisoners here; free them and they will reward you.
Winning a Red Triple Crown will increase his pleasure and your reward.

 Somewhere in this castle is an ancient totem called a "N-19 Capitor."

 DUNGEON LEVEL 1

 Half-Orcs, Ninjas, and Barbarians are not welcome here, although there are
several magic items kept here that will benefit only Ninjas or Barbarians.

 There are unavoidable traps here; just grin and bear them, then get the guy who
trapped you! You may also find a device that enhances IQ but causes a loss in
strength, and a magical fountain. It is rumored that there is a portal to a
distant location somewhere in this dungeon.
 !CompuServe TEG-10466


 DUNGEON LEVEL 2

 Again, Half-orcs, Ninjas, and Barbarians are not welcome, and unavoidable traps
are scattered everywhere. You may find a magical fountain, and devices to
improve your strength.

 CASTLE PINEHURST

 Home of Lord Peabody (the inventor of the WayBack Machine) and Sherman, his pet
boy. The Bishop of Yellow Battle (near Battle Creek) is held in this castle.

 Many creatures roam the halls in this castle, and they are almost all deadly.
If you avoid the monsters, watch out for traps, and keep an eye on the date
(your date, not my date!). Would you know a B-12 Frammis if you saw one? How
about a J-29 Fluxor?

 DUNGEON LEVEL 1

 For some reason, Lord Peabody doesn't want Humans, Knights, or Paladins in his
 !CompuServe TEG-10491

dungeon. This is unfortunate since there is magic here that only works in their
hands.

 Accuracy is exceeded here, while speed recedes. Beware of traps! Instant travel
is offered and may be accepted, if you want!

 DUNGEON LEVEL 2

 Stay away Humans, Knights, and Paladins. There are some nice magic items here,
and one of the best rewards in all Cron may be found in the southwest corner.
Those who serve evil may chose to serve good, if only for a time.

 CASTLE WOODHAVEN

 This castle is the home of Lord Hoardall, who likes to collect things. He has
an absolutely fantastic memory and a mystic rapport with his treasures. He will
know instantly when you steal something, and he will never forget that you stole
it! The Green Bishop resides here unwillingly.

 Hoardall is sponsoring a convention of clerics and other healers who will try
 !CompuServe TEG-10493

and solve the problem of the sickness that strikes those who enter the Dead Zone
in D1. The opening day of the convention is May 27th, so you may see references
to the "M-27 Radicon" in this castle.

 DUNGEON LEVEL 1

 Hoardall dislikes Elves, Robbers, and Clerics, and does his best to keep them
out of his dungeons. This is unfortunate for them because there are powerful
magical items here to assist Robbers and Clerics.

 Your party will be repeatedly struck by darts as they wander the halls; these
traps are unavoidable. If you rest after these attacks, they should not
interfere too much with your explorations. Powerful magic in this dungeon can be
used to increase your personality (but don't forget how to lift weights
afterward!).

 DUNGEON LEVEL 2

 Travel in this dungeon is difficult; almost all of the doors are secret, and
random teleporters are scattered throughout the level. Elves, Robbers, and
 !CompuServe TEG-10609

Clerics are not welcome here even though there are treasures that will benefit
Robbers and Clerics.

 Alignments can be neutralized here, voluntarily. There are rumors of ways to
increase Luck, and trade Treasure for Experience. If you are clever and do a
good job of mapping, you may be able to secretly return to the Dragon's Head
Fountain with your Elves, so that they, too, may benefit.

 LUXUS PALACE ROYALE

 Queen Lamanda, current reigning Sovereign of Cron, maintains this magnificent
castle much as it seemed in the reign of her father, King Kalohn. To her, and
through her to the citizens of Cron, this mighty fortress represents the hope
and dream of saving Cron.

 The inside isn't as well-maintained as the outside, however. In some rooms,
dust covers everything, and the Royal Alchemist is making Fool's Gold to fill
Lamanda's coffers. Lamanda is desperate to rescue her father, and restore the
rightful order of things.

 !CompuServe TEG-10611

 In order to earn an interview with the Queen, your party must win a Black
Triple Crown and have all completed their Jurors' Quests. The Black Bishop,
imprisoned here, will also be glad to see the winners of the Black Triple Crown.
Corak used to live and work here, and is rumored to have quipped, "An 'A-1
Todilor' is a high-society baby learning to walk!"

 DUNGEON LEVEL 1

 Luxus Dungeon is a prison, filled with permanent spells that prevent magical
transportation. Your party should avoid guards, as they will charge you a hefty
fine for your unauthorized presence.

 Dwarves, Sorcerers, and Archers are unwelcome here, and strong magic items for
helping Sorcerers and Archers are hidden here. Clever parties may find ways to
enhance speed and strength from the features, although endurance may suffer.

 DUNGEON LEVEL 2

 This is an extremely chaotic place with random teleporters all over, and very
few walls. There are many wonders, if you can reach them, including ways to gain
 !CompuServe TEG-10613

additional hit points and speed, change sex and alignment, and increase your
existing hit points.

 In the northwest you may encounter a hit point salesman. His price is steep,
but his product is worth it!

 Don't ignore clues, look to the walls for some shocking information!

 Again, Dwarves, Archers, and Sorcerers are not wanted here; however, you should
sneak them in to visit the Hit Point Salesman -- as long as your money is good,
he doesn't care who you are, and you will handicap your characters if they don't
take advantage of this!

 III: TOWERS, CAVES, FORTS, AND MINES

 Presented in no specific order, here is some information on the other
dungeon-like areas in Cron.

 SARAKIN'S MINE

Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe TEG-10615

 Long noted for the amount of gold it produced, this once well-maintained mine
is now collapsing, making it a dangerous place to explore. Recently, stories
have circulated about two more foolish adventurers who went looking for easy
treasure and never returned.

 Stories told by others who visited the mine long ago and returned empty-handed
suggest the mine is haunted. Some of the story tellers claim there are gold
nuggets scattered on the floor of the mine, waiting for someone brave enough to
take them.

 Sarakin was obsessed by the desire to live forever, a goal he might have
reached only in death.

 GEMMAKER CAVE

 Gemmaker Cave is recessed into the side of an active volcano, surrounded by a
lake of molten lava. The Gemmaker himself (the legendary figure who is said to
have dug the cave) still resides here, but he is well-hidden and desires to see
few visitors. He sometimes rewards those who are ingenious enough to seek him
out with a very powerful sorcerer spell.
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-10616


 Occasionally, gems are formed in the crucible of the volcano, and the magic of
the Gemmaker somehow separates them from the lava, and scatters them throughout
the cave. He has never seemed to care what happened to these gems.

 Parties that venture into the cave without some protection against the fiery
heat in the rocks will soon regret their actions!

 CORAK'S CAVERN

 Corak's body, fittingly, rests in Corak's Cave. The body rests in honor in a
crypt, to which only Clerics and Robbers are ever permitted access.

 Hiding in the cave is Corak's assistant Lloyd, who is willing to teach a party
a special sorcerer spell. Lloyd hopes that in return, you will return Corak's
soul to his body.

 While Lloyd is not able to force you to help Corak, he is extending you his
trust.

 !CompuServe TEG-10618

 ICE CAVE

 Located in the middle of the Ice Plains, this is a dangerous place to visit.
Spread throughout the passages are traps that rob a party of their spells, and
may have less obvious, yet farther reaching affects, for good or ill.

 There are literally swarms of monsters here, and even a very powerful party
risks never leaving this cave alive.

 There is rumored to be a way to increase Personality stored here, but the rumor
adds that only a stag party (a stagette party?) might find it!

 RIFT CAVERN

 This cavern may be found on the edge of the Desert of Desolation. Occasionally,
fissures open up over this cave, plunging unsuspecting parties into the black
depths below.

 Someone is using this cave as a storehouse of supplies and weapons, and has
scattered obscure riddles and bits of information throughout. Often, those that
 !CompuServe TEG-10620

leave are faster than they were when they entered. Remember that neatness
promotes success!

 DRUIDS' STRONGHOLD

 The Druids' Stronghold is the home of the four varieties of Druids: Earth, Air,
Fire, and Water. Each has set traps for the unwary in these passages.

 You will have trouble resting here as the general surroundings are not
conducive to peaceful thought. Pay close attention to the walls; often a Druid
in a hurry might leave a note that he can return to later.

 There is an ominous feel in the air here, as if some major blasphemy is waiting
to happen, and a sense that you can prevent it. Look for someone who will reward
you for this task, because it is hazardous. The reward should be a very useful
spell. Exotic plants may lighten your party's load, especially any of your
characters who are connected to the sea.

 There is at least one very powerful monster here whose breed is less common in
Cron than it was centuries ago.
Press <CR> for more !


CompuServe TEG-10621


 FORBIDDEN FOREST FORT

 Sort of a companion and counterweight to the Druids' Stronghold, there is an
invading army based in this cavern. You will find lots of monsters. Most of them
are common soldiers and dangerous only in large numbers; there are large numbers
of them here!

 The MPs are tough; the Sergeants of the Fifth and Seventh Legions are tougher.
The officers in GHQ are very much tougher and include an Ancient Dragon.

 Paladins may find the answer to their Jurors' Quest here.

 THE DRAGON'S DOMINION

 This dark, smelly hole is home to at least 100 dragons of all types. Naturally,
there are fantastic treasures here for those strong enough to take them!

 There are many ancient artifacts of great power here -- such as a Titan's Pike
(does 1-40 points per round plus whatever the weapon's bonus is) -- many of
Press <CR> for more !CompuServe TEG-10623

which are unaligned. But the best rewards are not treasures of gold, gems, or
magic.

 There are three ways to gain hit points that are guarded by the Dragons. Two
are useful but not spectacular; the third is worth facing any danger to obtain!

 This great treasure of hit points is guarded by an Ancient Dragon, and will
only affect each character once in his lifetime (I think). So, go see what it
is!

 MURRAY'S CAVERN

 Part of Murray's Resort, Murray's Cavern is not a place for the timid. Part of
the cave is used for laboratories, where Murray's researchers seem to be trying
to build new types of monsters; the rest is reserved by Murray himself for the
offices and vaults required to store his great treasures and run his many
businesses.

 Murray can often be found in his office, if your party can pass his stringent
entrance requirements. However, you shouldn't break in on him unless you are
 !CompuServe TEG-10625

willing to do him a small favor.

 Note that Murray may be the single most powerful man-like being in Cron, so
don't irritate him. You really wouldn't like him when he's angry!

 DAWN'S BOG MIST RESORT

 Dawn used to be Murray's honey, but they've drifted apart (a long way apart).
Being something of a businesswoman, Dawn saw the vast potential earnings of a
resort for monsters, so she started one. While she and Murray don't usually
compete for the same customers, Murray would like to close Dawn's Resort just on
general principles.

 There is more to Dawn's than meets the eye. There are a lot of monsters here at
any one time, relaxing and enjoying the resort, but that doesn't make them less
dangerous.

 If a party is lucky here, they can increase their luck, and maybe find some
irelings.

Press <CR> for more !


CompuServe TEG-10626

 Dawn may not know what is hidden in her resort, but somewhere in it is one of
the most fabulous treasures in Cron, one you absolutely must recover to win the
game. One problem, though: Once you find it, how can you get it home?

 THE DARK KEEP AND THE TOWER OF MERCY

 These twin towers hold two of the most powerful sorcerers of ancient Cron, in
stasis. The towers are defended by a magical force that repels all but Sorcerers
and Robbers.

 Once in either of the towers, an exploration party will discover further
advances must be made through a dangerous maze-like area, in which battle may be
avoided if proper choices are made. There are clues to the proper choices in
some of the dungeons and caves.

 Once the party reaches its goal (a room in which one of the Sorcerers sleeps in
stasis), they will have to properly set a combination into two panels to turn
off the stasis. Of course, these combinations are hidden somewhere in the land
of Cron also.

 !CompuServe TEG-10628

 Setting the proper combinations release the Sorcerers, and the party of
Sorcerers and Robbers has just completed their Jurors' Quest. Simple, isn't it?

 THE SQUARE LAKE CAVE

 In the middle of Square Lake is a mountainous island into which is set an
entrance with the inscription "Chosen Ones Only."

 A "Chosen One" has received his Black Triple Crown, completed his Jurors'
Quest, and has been named as a Chosen One by Queen Lamanda.

 To prove their mettle, the party of the Chosen One must battle through an
interminable string of monsters and venture deeper and deeper into the Square
Lake Cave until they reach their goal: a door beyond which they must pass to
save Cron.

 One of the meanest tricks in the game is that the party of the Chosen One is
allowed to battle through the endless corridors of the Square Lake Cave and
reach their goal before they have achieved all that they must and are told to
come back some other time. Perhaps this wasn't meant as a nasty trick, but it
 !CompuServe TEG-10630

usually takes over an hour to fight all the endless monsters to reach the final
goal.

 Don't bother visiting the Square Lake Cave until after you have rescued King
Kalohn; you will be wasting your time.

 Once you have saved the King, your visit here will be worthwhile. There is one
puzzle left to solve, and it's not easy. Before you get here, you might want to
get out a dictionary and review the word "cryptogram."

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
Last page !








CompuServe TEG-10633





 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 8

 OUTSIDE LOCATIONS (See Note 1)

 Ancient Swords: Sword of Honor D4 (14,11); Sword of Nobility D1 (0,8); Sword of
Valor A4 (11,2).

 Artifacts of Power: Corak's Soul C1 (10,15).

 Castles (and Castle Lords): Castle HillStone (Lord Slayer) D4 (13,1); Castle
PineHurst (Lord Peabody) A2 (1,1); Castle Woodhaven (Lord Hoardall) C1 (3,14);
Castle Xabran C2 (14,8); Luxus Palace Royale (Queen Lamanda) D2 (14,14).

 Caves/Caverns/Dungeons/Mines: Corak's Cave C2 (5,11); Dawn's Mist Cavern D4
(3,7); Dragons' Dominion D1 (12,14); Druid's Cave C3 (1,6); Forbidden Forest
Fort (Paladins) C3 (15,0); Gemmaker Cave E1 (3,4); Ice Cavern B1 (4,12);
 !CompuServe TEG-10636

Murray's Cave B4 (2,2); Nomadic Rift Cavern E3 (9,3); Rift Hole D3 (11,8); Rift
Hole D3 (13,7); Sarakin's Mine A2 (12,3); Square Lake Cave C2 (10,7).

 Clerical Spells: 2-3 C3 (1,9); 4-2 A1 (8,8); 5-1 A1 (1,14); 5-3 B4 (8,1); 6-1
E4 (8,8); 6-4 A4 (1,1); 6-5 A4 (8,8); 7-1 E4 (14,1); 8-1 E1 (14,14); 8-2 E1
(8,8); 9-2 C1 (5,5).

 Dangerous Encounters: Cosmic Sludge B2 (3,6); Horrors! C1 (2,10); The Door to
Hell C4 (1,9); The 3 Cuisinarts B2 (1,9); The Jouster B3 (5,11).

 Envoys of Evil: Dragon Lord D1 (10,12); Queen Beetle E2 (11,6); Serpent King E3
(5,6).

 Events: LeperCon D4 (7,14); Merchants' Meeting B2 (9,5); OrcCon B2 (14,10).

 Fountains, Pools, Springs (see Note 2): Exotic Fountain (Health) E1 (1,5);
Exotic Fountain (?) E1 (3,10); Fountain of Accuracy C2 (1,13); Fountain of
Curses A4 (12,7); Fountain of Death E1 (11,2); Fountain of Healing E4 (1,6);
Fountain of Levels C2 (2,1); Fountain of Might B1 (11,14); Fountain of Might B4
(14,9); Fountain of Mystic Strength C1 (1,5); Fountain of Mystic Knowledge C1
 !CompuServe TEG-10638

(1,11); Fountain of Poison A3 (1,14); Fountain of Speed A3 (1,13); Fountain of
Spells C2 (14,10); Greatest Fountain (Health) E2 (11,9); Murray's Baths B4
(2,3); Murray's Mud Bath B4 (2,4); Murray's Pool B4 (4,2); Pool of Blood A4
(13,13); Pool of Levels A1 (2,3); Pool of Luck E3 (10,12); Pool of Pestilence A2
(1,3); Rancid Pool (Health) A4 (10,10); Wishing Well D1 (13,9).

 Freebies: Gems near B4 (12,12) and in Gemmaker Cave; Gold in Sarakin's Mine;
Mystic Inscription C3 (0,7).

 Geographic Features: Active Volcano E1 (6,6) and E1 (8,2); Arcane Wilderness
D3; Barbaric Hills C3 and C4; Beggar's Grove C1; Corpse Creek C1; Dawn's Mist
Bog D4; Dead Zone D1; Desert of Desolation D2, E2, D3,and E3; Druids' Point C3;
Falcon Forest B2; Forbidden Forest C3, D3, and D4; Gemmaker Volcano E1 (4,7);
Ice Tundra A1, B1, A2, and B2; Inner Limits E3; Isle of the Ancients B3 and B4;
Lost Soul's Woods C1; Mt. Farview D2 (7,0); Murray's Island B4; Native's Cove
B4; Peaceful Goblin Villages D1; Pearl Islands A3 and A4; Petrified Peninsula
A3; Quagmire of Doom C4 and D4; Queen's Orchard D2; Square Lake C2.

 Hired Help: A3 (8,1); B4 (14,1); D1 (14,1); and D3 (1,14).

 !CompuServe TEG-10640

 Keys: Mark's Keys A2 (2,9).

 Magical (and Semi-magical) Food and Drink (see Note 2): Magical Fruit (Fast) B2
(1,7); Magical Fruit (Smart) B2 (8,8); Magical Fruit (Stone) B2 (3,9); Magical
Fruit (Strong) D2 (1,12); Murray's Juice Bar B4 (4,4); Tree Bark (spells) D3
(3,14).

 Magical Transportation: Ferry C2 (11,4) and C2 (11,12); Murray's Boat Ride C3
(7,9); Passage Behind the Falls C3 (11,15); Passage to Time of Air A1 (0,15);
Passage to Time of Earth E4 (15,0); Passage to Time of Fire E1 (15,15); Passage
to Time of Water A1 (0,15); Sinkholes C4, Teleport to Dungeon Woodhaven B2
(4,1); Teleport to Dungeon Hillstone B2 (4,3); Teleport to Dungeon Luxus B2
(6,1); Teleport to Dungeon Pinehurst B2 (6,3); Whirlpools A3.

 Messages: Green-1 B2 (14,9), Green-2 B3 (12,2), Green-3 B2 (14,5), and Green-4
B3 (12,9); Yellow-1 E3 (7,2), Yellow-2 E4 (2,11), Yellow-3 D3 (13,4), Yellow-4
D4 (12,10), Yellow-5 E4 (7,15), Yellow-6 D4 (14,15), Yellow-7 D3 (5,10),
Yellow-8 E3 (0,3), and Yellow-9 D3 (8,2).

 Monuments: B3 (14,6), B3 (15,4), B3 (15,8), C3 (3,5), C3 (3,7), and C3 (1,8).
 !CompuServe TEG-10642


 People to See (and Monsters, too): Baron Wilfrey (Archers) B2 (11,2); Brutal
Bruno (Barbarians) C4 (0,15); Bozorc D1 (14,1); Death Spider A2 (2,9); Fat Toad
C4 (14,8); Guardian Pegasus B1 (9,9); Jurors on Mt. Farview D2 (7,0); Lord Haart
B1 (5,5); Lumberjacks B1 (15,13); Mandagul D2 (6,8); Mark C1 (1,1); Mr. Wizard
D3 (1,14); Raving Mad Man D3 (7,13); Spaz Twit A1 (12,4); The Gourmet A3 (7,7);
The Dread Knight (Knights) B3 (5,14); The Long One E2 (5,4); Toothless Old Druid
C3 (1,9); Yekop (Sorcerers) B4 (4,10); Ybmug (Sorcerers) B3 (4,4).

 Places to Go: Bay of Death A3 (12,9); Camp Kill-U E2 (11,14); Castle Ruins C2
(14,8); Circus B2 (14,4); Desert Oases E2 (3,1), E2 (3,7), E2 (4,6), E2 (10,1),
E2 (11,14), E2 (14,4), E3 (2,10), E3 (6,8), and E3 (11,6); Dino Ranch E2 (7,12);
Farm of Fear D4 (9,11); Fortress Haart B1 (5,5); Magical Monster Pit C2 (4,4);
Murray's Gym B4 (4,3); Murray's Resort B4 (3,3); Orc Hideaway C2 (7,3); Sunken
Ship A3 (2,2).

 Sorcerer Spells: 5-2 C1 (1,8); 7-1 A2 (15,11); 9-2 D1 (5,6).

 Towers: Dark Keep (Sorcerers) B3 (4,4); Tower of Mercy (Sorcerers) B4 (4,10).

 !CompuServe TEG-10644

 Towns: Atlantium A4 (13,10); Middlegate C2 (7,3); Sandsobar E4 (4,10); Tundara
A1 (12,3); Vulcania E1 (3,4).

 Fun things to try: Murray's Massage B4 (3,2).

 Note 1: Not all the features listed above exist in the present. Some features
may only exist on certain days. You might need to be facing a specific direction
to see some of these features. If you are at the specified location and can't
find anything, face all four directions. If you still don't see anything,
explore the squares nearby. Items followed by a character type in parentheses
indicate the item is important to the Jurors' Quest for that character type.

 Note 2: The effects of each fountain/pool/spring and food item were determined
empirically (e.g., a character used them and I noted the results.) In some
cases, there were no noticeable results. Some of the effects of these magical
waters may change with time or the previous actions of characters. Magical water
may benefit some characters but harm others. For example, a spring that changes
the level of everyone in the party to 18 is a great benefit to second level
characters, but a terrible curse for 50th level characters.

 !CompuServe TEG-10646

 IN AND UNDER TOWNS AND CASTLES

 Middlegate (Town 1) C2 (7,3): Middlegate Inn (7,6); S. J. Blacksmith (4,4);
Slaughtered Lamb Tavern (4,6); Sleepy's Mage Guild (7,14); Join Mage Guild
(2,12); Gateway Temple (7,7); Turkov's Training (7,10); Town Gates (5,15);
Poorman's Portal (Sandsobar/Atlantium) (1,5); Cavern under city (8,0); Lock and
Key, Ltd. (2,8); Arena (12,4); Otto Mapper, Esquire (0,15); Edmund's Expeditions
(2,12), Track and Trail (2,9); Brain Detoxification (12,11), Travelmoore (8,13);
Feldecarb Fountain (15,15); Fountain of Clairvoyance (8,4); Nordon (11,2);
Nordonna (1,1).

 Middlegate Cavern: Stairs (15,8); Dangerous Encounters (5,3), (7,13), (8,1),
(11,7), (11,9), (12,3), and (12,13); Free Gold (1,0); Goblets (0,7); Goblins'
Lair (2,8); Green Interleave (8,14); Hired Help (0,15); Kobold HQ (1,15). Places
to visit: (0,0), (3,6), (3,10), (9,0), (11,8), and (15,2).

 Atlantium (Town 2) A4 (13,10): Carriage Inn (8,14); Drewnhald Ironworks (6,14);
Boar's Tongue Tavern (11,10); Cabalist Mage Guild (6,4); Join Mage Guild (11,7);
Elusian Temple (5,7); Island Training (9,4); Town Gates (15,15); Beautify
Atlantium (Vulcania) (3,0); The Mystic Portal (Middlegate) (12,0); Cavern under
 !CompuServe TEG-10649

city (0,15); Classic Key Shoppe (4,10); The Colosseum (7,9); The Olympic Trial
(6,3); Odysseus' Tongue (8,3); Hippomenes and Atlanta (10,3); City Jail (3,13);
Clerics and Sorcerers Rooming House (13,6); Knights and Warriors Rooming House
(2,6); Statues (X=0 or 15, Y=8 to 11).

 The Depths of Atlantium: Stairs (8,8). Monuments: Statue of Transport (0,14);
Statue of Death (3,3); Statue of Draining (5,1); Statue of Enlightenment (Int)
(11,15); Statue of Transport (14,5). Places to visit: (1,13), (5,5), (6,13),
(9,6), and (15,7).

 Tundara (Town 3) A1 (12,3): Tundaran Arms Inn (8,11); Thundrax Weaponry
(10,10); Lucky Dog Saloon (8,9); Mystical Mage Guild (14,14); Join Mage Guild
(9,8); White Dove Temple (11,12); Enhancement Center (11,7); Town Gates (15,11);
La Port (Sandsobar) (6,10); Polar Passage Portal (Vulcania) (6,8); Cavern under
city (7,6); International Market (5,12); Sarcen's Denial (3,14); Columbus's
Sextant (8,14); City Jail (3,5); Passage through Inner Wall (2,7); Passage into
Outer Wall (14,7); Barrier Control (15,12); Frozen Monster (X=2 to 13, Y=1 or
3); Nifty Treasure (15,9).

 Tundara Below: Stairs (14,1); Control Room (10,13). Places to visit: (3,11),
 !CompuServe TEG-10651

(3,13), (5,4), (7,8), (11,8), and (13,10). Secret Doors: (0,8), (8,6), (12,15),
and (15,4). Storage Rooms: (5,12), (12,1), and (12,6). Transporter: (10,2).

 Vulcania (Town 4) E1 (3,4): Hotel Four (7,2); Bestway Blacksmith (14,8);
Belinthra's Bar (5,2); Blackrock Mage Guild (11,6); Join Mage Guild (3,6);
Vulcan Temple (13,8); Training Academy (5,3); Town Gates (5,0); Vulcanian
Transport (Sandsobar) (6,2); Vulcanian Export Co. (Atlantium) (8,2); Cavern
under city (10,0); Lava Locksmith (1,8); Proficiency Expert (15,2);
Disembowelments R Us (3,10); Sergeant Pain School (0,2); Scale of Protection
(10,6); Element Statue (6,9), (6,11), (8,9), and (8,11); Entrance to Wild
Section (7,12).

 Vulcania Under: Stairs (10,0); Hired Help (1,14). Places to visit: (1,1),
(3,6), (5,14), (9,1), (13,6), and (15,15). Song of Endearing (End) (15,14).

 Sandsobar (Town 5) E4 (4,10): Hourglass Inn (2,10); Big Al's Accessories
(7,14); Red Lantern Tavern (5,10); Whirlwind Mage Guild (5,7); Join Mage Guild
(1,12); Temple Benedictus (5,11); Sheik Training Arena (2,7); Town Gates (0,14);
Sirocco Portal (Tundara) (4,15); Dune Portal (Middlegate) (8,2); Cavern under
city (10,0); Fitpro Locksmith (6,3); The Monster Bowl (10,8); The Embassy (2,4);
 !CompuServe TEG-10653

Sly's Opportunities (1,5); The Sandy Dunes (2,0); The Wizard's Eye (9,11); The
Beggar's Gift (8,4); Entrance to the Slums (10,1).

 Pits of Sandsobar: Stairs (12,7); Friendly Zombie (0,0). Places to visit:
(0,11), (4,2), (5,8), and (14,14); Sharp Tooth Den (15,0); Thieves' Guild
(2,14); Master Thief Maxwell (13,9); Master Thief Renaldo, Jr. (0,12).

 Castle HillStone D4 (13,1): Lord Slayer (5,2); Entrances (7,15) and (8,15);
Stairs to Dungeon (10,13); Guards (0,2), (0,13), (2,0), (2,15), (13,0), (13,15),
(15,2), and (15,13); Hired Help (8,4); Joke of the Day (5,9); N-19 Capitor
(3,13); Quest Pharmacy (13,2); Prison (8,6); Red Room (11,2); The Zoo (10,11);
Throne Room (5,3).

 HillStone Dungeon, Level 1: (10,13); Stairs Up (8,15); Stairs Down (5,1); Magic
Traps (1,0), (1,1), (1,2), (3,12), (4,5), (5,5), (7,2), (7,3), (8,0), (8,6),
(9,2), (9,3), (13,9), (14,4), (15,0), (15,3). Forbidden Locations: No Half-orcs
(6,7), (7,5), (9,5), and (10,7); No Barbarians (1,12); No Ninjas (15,12). Places
of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (HP) (11,1); Attribute Modifier (Might, Int)
(0,0); Golden Fountain of Experience (11,5); Portal to Woodhaven Dungeon Level 1
(15,15). Treasures: Coral Broach (1,14); Crystal Vial (15,14).
Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe TEG-10655


 HillStone Dungeon, Level 2: Stairs from Level 1 (5,1); Stairs Up (0,12); Magic
Traps (0,15), (1,13), (1,15), (2,14), (4,13), (5,10), (7,8), (7,13), (11,4),
(11,6), (11,10), (12,3), (12,4), (12,13), (14,1), and (15,4). Forbidden
Locations: No Half-orcs (10,6); No Barbarians (13,14); No Ninjas (2,0). Places
of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (HP) (10,7); Attribute Modifier (Int/End) (3,9);
Golden Pit of Experience (9,15); Whirlpool of Machismo (0,8); Portal to
Woodhaven Dungeon Level 2 (7,10). Treasure: Lapis Scarab (15,15); Ruby Amulet
(4,0).

 Castle PineHurst (Lord Peabody) A2 (1,1); Lord Peabody (4,3); Entrance (15,7)
and (15,8); Stairs to Dungeon (11,2); Cryptic Words (2,8); J26 Fluxor (7,6);
Teleporters (2,6) and (14,5); Time Trap (2,7); WayBack Machine (2,5); Yellow
Room (13,3).

 PineHurst Dungeon, Level 1: (11,2); Stairs Up (0,15); Stairs Down (1,2). Magic
Trap (4,6), (5,1), (8,11), (14,1), (15,0), (15,9), (15,11), and (15,13).
Forbidden Locations: No Humans (0,14), (14,14); No Knights (11,14); No Paladins
(6,5). Places of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (Acc) (14,13); Attribute Modifier
(Spd/Acc) (2,7); Portal to Luxus Dungeon Level 1 (12,8). Treasures: Ivory Cameo
 !CompuServe TEG-10657

(11,13); Agate Grail (6,6).

 PineHurst Dungeon, Level 2: Stairs from Level 1 (1,2); Stairs Up (7,7); Magic
Traps (0,3), (1,7), (2,10), (4,6), (4,12), (6,10), (7,9), (9,3), (13,3), and
(15,4). Forbidden Locations: No Humans (6,7) and (13,2); No Knights (3,12) and
(4,14); No Paladins (14,12), (14,14), and (15,13). People to See: Spell Salesman
(2,1). Places of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (Luck) (13,1); Attribute Modifier
(Luck/Per) (4,15); Fountain of Good (5,1); Portal to Luxus Dungeon Level 2
(8,6). Treasure: Opal Pendant (14,13); Ruby Tiara (2,13).

 Castle Woodhaven C1 (3,14); Lord Hoardall (9,11); Entrance (7,0) and (8,0);
Stairs to Dungeon (11,9); Guards (0,2), (0,13), (2,0), (2,15), (13,0), (13,15),
(15,2), and (15,13); Green Room (10,7); Joke of the Day (9,6); N-19 Capitor
(3,13); Quest Pharmacy (13,2); Throne Room (5,3); Treasury around (4,5).

 Woodhaven Dungeon, Level 1: (11,9); Stairs Up (0,15); Stairs Down (13,13);
Magic Traps (1,4), (1,7), (3,14), (4,6), (6,0), (8,10), (9,2), (9,7), (12,9),
(13,8), and (15,12). Forbidden Locations: No Elves (0,6), (6,15), (7,13),
(8,13), (8,14), and (8,15); No Clerics (3,6); No Robbers (6,3). Places of
Interest: Attribute Enhancer (0,7); Attribute Modifier (Might/Pers) (15,0).
 !CompuServe TEG-10659

Treasure: Onyx Effigy (4,4); Sapphire Pin (7,1).

 Woodhaven Dungeon, Level 2: Stairs from Level 1 (13,13); Stairs Up (7,15);
Forbidden Locations: No Elves (7,14) and (11,4); No Clerics (7,4) and (10,6); No
Robbers (6,4). Places of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (12,2); Attribute Modifier
(8,6); Experience the Gem-eating Dragon! (4,4); Neutrality Pool (7,8). Random
Teleports: (0,1), (0,6), (2,4), (3,2), (4,0), (5,3), (6,6), (8,3), (10,2), and
(15,8). Treasure: Amethyst Box (4,6); Pearl Choker (12,2).

 Luxus Palace Royale D2 (14,14): Queen Lamanda (7,13) and (8,13); Entrance
(7,0); Stairs Down (0,0); Joke of the Day (7,10) and (8,10); A-1 Todilor (0,6);
Black Room (13,14); Throne (7,12) and (8,12); Corak's Study (7,9) and (7,11);
Court Wizard (8,11);

 Luxus Dungeon, Level 1 (0,0): Stairs Down (11,8); Stairs Up (0,12); Magic
Traps: (0,10), (2,0), (8,11), and (10,15). Forbidden Locations: No Dwarves
(10,14) and (10,8); No Archers (2,15); No Sorcerers (1,0). Places of Interest:
Attribute Enhancer (11,14); Attribute Modifier (5,0); Portal to HillStone
Dungeon Level 1 (15,0). Treasure: Amber Skull (0,0); Topaz Shard (0,15).

 !CompuServe TEG-10661

 Luxus Dungeon, Level 2: Stairs from Level 1 (13,5); Stairs Up (10,2); Magic
Traps (Random Teleporters) all over! Forbidden Locations: Eraweb Salem (4,7);
Fear No Evil (5,10); No Dwarfs (8,10) and (10,1); No Archers (15,14); No
Sorcerers (14,13). People to See: Hit Point Salesman (0,15). Places of Interest:
Attribute Enhancer (15,0); Attribute Modifier (16,6); Alignments by Appointment
(5,11); Feminine Mystique (4,8); Portal to HillStone Dungeon Level 2 (11,1).
Treasure: Sun Crown (15,13); Quartz Skull (14,14).

 Castle Xabran (8th Era) C2 (14,8): Dangerous Encounters (2,8), (3,2), (3,14),
and (4,7); Hall of Spells (3,9); Hireling Hall (3,7); Red Interleave (3,4);
Yellow Interleave (12,12); Air Disc (15,15); Earth Disc (6,2); Fire Disc (6,14);
Water Disc (15,0).

 DUNGEONS, TOWERS, AND CAVES

 Corak's Cave C2 (5,11): Entrance (7,13) and (8,13); Dangerous Encounters (7,3)
and (8,3). Places of Interest: Cryptic Words (13,0); Sarcophagus Storage (3,8)
and (12,8); Zombie Sanctuary (5,13) and (10,13). People to See: Crypt Guardians
(7,6) and (8,6); Lloyd (7,11); Corak (8,0); Mysterious Benefactor (13,3).

Press <CR> for more !


CompuServe TEG-10663

 Dark Keep B3 (4,4): Entrance (0,0); Clues for a Safe Passage (1,0), (4,3),
(4,6), (6,5), (6,8), (8,6), (8,9), (10,7), (10,10), (11,13), (12,11), and
(14,13). Dangerous Encounters (1,4); Stasis Chamber (3,13); Controls (2,10),
(4,10). People to See: Evil Wizard Ybmug (3,13).

 Safe Passage: 1 3 1 1 9 12 A C G I. Access Code: L 23 R 46.

 Dawn's Mist Bog Resort D4 (3,7): Entrance (7,0), (8,0), and (9,0). Dangerous
Encounters: Employees Only (1,14); Lucky Dogs (13,8); Greedy Snitches (7,12) and
(9,12); Guardians (11,12). Hired Help (4,11). People to See: Dawn (8,9). Places
of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (Luck) (12,7); Cafeteria (14,14) Dog Kennel
(14,8); Lounge (1,3); Playroom (1,1); Spa (14,0); Steam Room (14,12); Target
Practice (1,11); Weight Room (14,10); Portal to Murray's Cavern (11,3).
Treasure: Monster Tome (15,13); Element Orb (10,15).

 Dragons' Dominion D1 (12,14): Entrance (0,7), (0,8), and (0,9). Dangerous
Encounters: Ancient Dragon (15,8) and (15,15); Armored Dragon (7,0); Magic
Serpent (15,13); Mixed Dragons (15,5) and (15,11). Free Gold (3,14). Places of
Interest: Hit Point Enhancer (0,0), (7,14), and (11,2). Treasures: (3,6),
(3,10), (13,6), and (13,10).
 !CompuServe TEG-10665


 Druids' Cavern C3 (15,0): Entrance (1,12): Exit (8,8). Dangerous Encounters:
(0,6) and (13,2). Freebies: (4,9), (10,12), (11,14), and (12,2). Magic Traps:
(0,8), (0,13), (2,2), (2,15), (5,2), (5,8), (6,5), (8,10), (9,12), (11,8),
(11,15), (12,0), (14,7), (15,2), and (15,9). Persons to See: Venerable Druid
Master (15,14). Places of Interest: Attribute Enhancer (Str) (1,15); Cryptic
Words (1,8), (8,3), and (15,11).

 Forbidden Forest Fort C3 (15,0): Entrance (7,7). Dangerous Encounters: (2,7)
and (2,8). Forbidden Locations: Paladins Only (8,9). People (and Monsters) to
See: Frost Dragon (8,7); High Command (15,8); Legion Commanders (14,1) and
(14,14); MPs (13,1) and (13,14); Sarge (11,1) and (11,14). Places of Interest:
Army Barracks (6,7) and (6,8); General Headquarters (14,5) and (14,10); Infantry
(4,6) and (4,9); Legions (3,7) and (3,8); 5th Legion (0,12) and (1,12); 7th
Legion (0,3) and (1,3); War Room (13,7) and (13,8).

 Gemmaker Cave E1 (4,7): Entrance (0,15). Freebies: (0,3), (1,9), (2,13),
(4,11), (4,13), (5,4), (6,14), (7,7), (9,8), (9,11), (10,3), (11,6), (11,15),
(13,6), (14,0), (14,1), (14,9), (14,12), (15,0), and (15,1). Magic Trap: Squares
around (9,8). People to See: Gemmaker (3,3). Places to Visit: (6,10). Cryptic
 !CompuServe TEG-10668

Words: (5,2), (7,12), (11,2), and (14,7).

 Ice Cavern B1 (4,12): Entrance (0,7). Dangerous Encounters: (0,8), (15,1),
(15,14), (1,1), (1,14), (4,4), (4,11), (7,1), (7,14), (10,4), (10,11), (13,1),
and (13,14). Freebies: (0,1), (0,15), (2,1), (3,3), (5,12), (6,15), (8,0),
(9,12), (10,3), (12,0), (14,15). Magic Traps: (1,2), (1,13), (4,5), (4,10),
(7,2), (7,13), (10,5), (10,10), (13,2), (13,13), (15,7), (15,8). Places of
Interest: Attribute Enhancer (Pers) (15,7) and (15,8). Restricted Areas: Females
Only (14,7); Males Only (14,8).

 Murray's Cavern B4 (2,2): Entrance (14,14). Dangerous Encounters: (2,1), (9,8),
(10,2), (11,3), (12,3), (12,12), and (13,2). Forbidden Locations: Heroes Only
(4,8); Murray Only (3,1); No Hirelings (7,8); No Weaklings (6,8). People to See:
Murray (1,8). Places of Interest: Laboratory (9,2), (12,11), and (14,2);
Murray's Vault (2,5); Portal to Dawns Mist Bog Resort (0,7). Treasure: Murray's
Treasure (6,5). Fun things to try: Murray's Goofy Juice (0,9); Murray's Power
Oil (5,15). Cryptic Words: (0,0), (0,12), (1,2), (3,2), (12,7), and (14,1).

 Rift Cave E3 (9,3): Entrance (13,0) and (15,7); Exit (15,7). Dangerous
Encounters: (0,7), (2,7), (4,7), (6,7), (8,7), (10,7), (12,7), and (14,7).
Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe TEG-10670

Freebies: (0,1), (0,3), (0,5), (0,9), (0,11), (0,13), (0,15), (2,6), (2,8),
(4,6), (4,8), (6,6), (6,8), (8,6), (8,8), (10,6), (10,8), (12,6), (12,8),
(14,15), and (15,0). Cryptic Words: (2,13), (3,0), (4,4), (6,3), (8,12), (8,15),
(12,15), and (14,2).

 Sarakin's Mine A2 (12,4): Entrance (8,0). Dangerous Encounters: (1,15).
Freebies: (0,5), (0,6), (0,7), (0,8), (0,9), (0,15), (1,6), (1,7), (2,9),
(2,10), (3,6), (3,7), (3,9), (4,10), (9,2), (10,14), (13,6), (13,9), (13,14),
and (15,14). Hired Help (7,2); Magic Traps Around (8,6), (2,6), (6,12), (11,10),
and (13,4). People to See: Ghost of Sarakin (8,6); Friends of Sarakin (2,3).
Places of Interest: Sarakin's Fountain (Youth) (1,15).

 Square Lake Cave C2 (10,7): Entrance (0,0). Dangerous Encounters: (15,1),
(14,2), (13,3), (12,4), (11,5), (10,6), (9,7), (8,8), (7,9), (6,10), (5,11),
(4,12), (3,13), and (2,14); 600 Demon Kings (11,14). Win the Game! (15,0).

 Tower of Mercy B4 (4,10): Entrance (15,15). Clues for a Safe Passage: (1,2),
(3,4), (4,2), (5,3), (5,6), (7,5), (7,8), (9,7), (9,10), (11,9), (11,12), and
(14,15). Dangerous Encounters (14,11); Stasis Chamber (12,15); Controls (11,5)
and (13,5). People to See: Good Wizard Yekop (12,5).
 !CompuServe TEG-10672


 Safe Passage: 2 2 4 6 6 12 A D F I. Access Code: L 64 R 32

 Elemental Plane of Air (Time of Air) A1 (0,15); Elemental Plane of Earth (Time
of Earth) E4 (15,0); Elemental Plane of Fire (Time of Fire) E1 (15,15);
Elemental Plane of Water (Time of Water) A4 (0,0).

 Messages: Red-1 Earth (15,8); Red-2 Air (0,7); Red-3 Water (0,8); Red-4 Earth
(7,0); Red-5 Fire (6,15); Red-6 Earth (9,6); Red-7 Air (7,15); Red-8 Water
(8,0); Red-9 Fire (15,7).

 People to See: Lord Acwalandar Water (8,8); Lord Gralkor Earth (4,5); Lord
Pyrannaste Fire (9,9); Lord Shalwend Air (5,5).

 Treasure: Air Talon Air (7,7); Earth Talon Earth (8,8); Fire Talon Fire (4,4);
Water Talon Water (10,10).

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 !CompuServe TEG-10673

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
 !CompuServe TEG-9446

MIGHT AND MAGIC II

 1 Introduction, Character Tips
 2 Starting Out, Quests
 3 Character Development
 4 Combat, Rest, Spell Casting
 5 Region Descriptions, Time Travel
 6 Town Descriptions
 7 Guide to Cron's Underground
 8 Complete Location Not









CompuServe TEG-10675




 MIGHT AND MAGIC II
       Part 9

 EXP




RESS TO SUCCESS

 While I was writing this walkthru, I discovered a way to raise level 6
characters to level 50 in under an h
our! Repeated applications can raise the
party to 255 (top end maximum!) in several hours. This section will tell you how
to d
o this for your party.

 Before you raise your characters to these heights, please consider that it may
ruin your enjoyment of the game. In my experience -- and the experience of other
gamers with whom I have discussed this -- this game plays best with characters
ranging in level from 20th to 40th. These levels allow you to win the battles
you need to, but force you to rely on your intelligence and cunning; at levels
higher than these, you can just use brute force to deal with any situation which
would tend to get rather boring after a while.
 !CompuServe TEG-10676


 Part of the game's response to higher level characters seems to be to increase
the number of monsters you meet in each encounter, and this eventually leads to
long boring combats; your party can wipe out a monster party consisting of six
Iron Wizards, a T. Rex, and 170 Armored Dragons, killing them all without taking
any damage. This battle could take upwards of ten minutes, and be followed by
similar encounters. While I originally enjoyed being more powerful than almost
any monster or combination of monsters, I soon realized that I had compromised
the playability of the game.

 MMII is a fun game that can be played for a long time, and I don't want to
spoil it for you with these hints (I have to admit, I felt very clever when I
discovered this!). So with that warning, read on if you like. Certainly, you
don't have to use what is presented here.

 PREPARATIONS

 For this process to work best, you need to make some preparations. You need to
find or purchase a Witch's Broom and a Teleport Orb, find the Holy Word spell
hidden in square C1, and visit Corak's Cave in C2 to learn Lloyd's Beacon.
 !CompuServe TEG-10678


 Using the Witch's Broom and the Teleport Orb, visit the Greatest Fountain which
is located in the desert in E2. Don't try to walk there or you will die;
instead, use the Orb to jump directly to the fountain. Cast a Lloyd's Beacon in
this square so that you can return here anytime you want. Now, use the Witch's
Broom to return to a town and save the game by entering an Inn.

 THE FIRST GIANT STEP

 Mr. Wizard is being held captive by a Lich and a Monster Masher in D3. Rescuing
him involves defeating the Lich and the Masher, and will provide you with
considerable experience (it jumped my characters from 6th level to 13th level).

 A Lich is an Undead Monster which can be dispelled by the Holy Word spell. Your
problems at this point are:

 1. Sixth level characters can't throw ninth level spells.

 2. Your cleric doesn't have enough spell points.

 !CompuServe TEG-10680

 3. You have to throw the spell before the Lich attacks, or you will be toasted,
and the Lich is faster than you (so is the Masher).

 4. There is no way that six sixth level characters can overcome a Monster
Masher.

 Dealing with these problems one at a time:

 1. In C1 is a fountain that temporarily allows all who drink from it to throw
9th level spells (if they know them).

 2. In C1 is a fountain that temporarily provides 200 spell points to everyone
who drinks from it.

 So you use the Broom to fly to C1, and drink from these two fountains.

 3. Use Lloyd's Beacon to return to the Greatest Fountain and drink from it.
This raises all your attribute scores -- including speed -- to 200, making you
faster than the Lich.

 !CompuServe TEG-10682

 4. The Greatest Fountain affects the amount of damage you do in a physical
attack by raising your strength to 200 (roughly equivalent to the Hulk), while
it increases your chance to hit (accuracy of 200 is impossible to describe).
When you fight the Masher you will be amazed!

 Use the Witch's Broom to fly to D3, then use the Teleport Orb to teleport to
(1,14) (don't try to walk there; if you get in a fight, you lose all your
enhancements and have to start again). Attack!

 Let everyone in your party (except the Cleric) smite the Monster Masher. I
suspect that four hits (from the Knight, Paladin, Robber, and Archer) will take
him out.

 When it's your cleric's turn, have him cast Holy Word. ZAP! The Lich is gone,
Mr. Wizard is free, grateful, and available for hire, and there is an excellent
treasure here.

 When you return home, visit the most expensive Training Center you can afford.
(I actually had to make some side trips to obtain enough gold to pay the
Training Center in order to find out my entire party was now 13th level.)
 !CompuServe TEG-10683


 The finishing touch on this step is to circle through the Towns of Cron,
visiting all of the Temples and Mages Guilds, and learning all the spells you
can afford.

 LATER, GREATER STEPS

 You can't rescue Mr. Wizard again, but at this point, with a little
preparation, you can take out the Cuisinarts!

 First, you need to learn the Dancing Sword spell. Before you leave town, visit
the Temple and make donations (option C) until the clerics bless you for the
day. Visit the Greatest Fountain and the Spell Fountains in C1, then use the
Broom to go to A2. Use the Teleport Orb (avoid encounters!) to jump to (15,11),
where you will find and fight the Mist Warrior, who you should defeat easily.
When you win this battle, you learn the Dancing Sword spell. Return home to rest
and save the game, because now we're going to chase Big Game!

 Purchase (or find) 12 units of "MaxHP Potion." Magic users can use the spell S
1-2 (Detect Magic) to see how many units each potion bottle holds.
 !CompuServe TEG-10685


 Visit your Temple and donate until you are blessed. Visit the Greatest Fountain
and the Spell Fountains, then use the Broom to take tou eo B2.

 Have every party member use two units of the MaxHP Potion, and have your
Paladin cast C 1-6 (Power Cure) on each party member in turn until he runs out
of spell points. If you have two Paladins, they should both throw spells until
they run out of points (don't use up your Cleric's spell points yet).

 At this point, you should have a Blessed Party, each of which can cast 9th
level spells, has 200 spell points each (except the Paladins), has attribute
scores of 200, and has magically extended his/her natural number of hit points.

 If your party has two Mountaineers, you can walk north through the mountains
(from the road) to (1,9). If not, use the Orb. You will encounter the
Cuisinarts. If you choose to fight, you get to go first (even if they surprise
you).

 Characters who can't throw spells should concentrate on the first Cuisinart.
Your Archer should probably shoot number 1, although using the Dancing Sword is
 !CompuServe TEG-10687

a good alternative. If your paladins have enough spell points left, they should
throw C 7-3 (Moon Ray), because while it doesn't hurt the Cuisinarts much, it
gives your party more hit points (and you will need them shortly!).

 Your Cleric should also throw Moon Ray. Your Sorcerer should throw S 8-4 (Power
Shield), which will cut damage to your party in half.

 Hopefully, the first Cuisinart is down, but he might still be standing. And now
it's their turn!

 If all three Cuisinarts frenzy, you're toast (again); however, there is a very
good chance that some of your party will be awake at the end of the round, and
also a good chance that you will all still be alive. If your Cleric is still
awake, you can save the day (well, save the second?) by throwing Moon Ray again.
Everyone who is still alive is partially cured, and you can start over.

 If your Paladin(s) or Cleric(s) is able to throw Moon Ray at the start of the
second round, you have probably already won the fight, although it may take
another round. With 13th level charaotere, this fight won't last more than three
rounds, and it will only go three rounds if you win.
 !CompuServe TEG-10689


 You may lose to the Cuisinarts in this fight. If so, come back and try it
again. If you try it two or three times, you ought to win one. As soon as you
win one fight, rest immediately, then search (don't forget to search!). Once you
have the treasure, quickly return to town and save the game. You don't want to
lose your new experience and have to do this over again!

 Once you've saved the game, visit a Training Center to reach the higher levels.
If, like me, you want to play with invincible characters, you can do the
Cuisinart cycle again.

 I went through the Cuisinart cycle twice. Actually, at this point, my party was
gaining experience points much faster than gold, so I had to stop Training to go
out and find treasure to pay for my Training. Regardless of the money problem,
my party went from 6th level to 50th level in under an hour!

 While treasure has been kind of glossed over here, you will be very happy with
the treasures the Cuisinarts hide. Things like a Silver Helmet +30, Silver
Splint Mail +23, Titan's Pike +25; many of the best treasures in the game can be
found here!
 !CompuServe TEG-10691


 Once you reach a level high enough to beat the Cuisinarts on a routine basis,
here is a method to advance even more quickly. Beat them once, turn to the west,
and take two steps. This puts you into A2. Rest (unless you already did), then
press the backup arrow twice to return to the Cuisinarts. Fight, win, search,
take two steps west, rest, take two steps east, and start again.

 Please remember my warning; you may upset the playability of the game by
becoming too high a level too quickly. But the method is there, if you want to
use it!

 POWER GOES TO MY HEAD

 There is a magical weapon called a Shaman Pipe which you can use to assist a
party of only Paladins and Archers in throwing 8th and 9th level spells. The
special power of the Pipe raises the user's Spell Level (Shaman's Pipe +1 raises
the spell level by 2). By using this power, characters normally limited to 7th
level spells can throw 9th level spells, if the spells are in their Spell Books.
And a visit to the Spell Salesman will allow these characters to put 8th and 9th
level spells in the book.
 !CompuServe TEG-10693


 Using an Archer to emulate a Robber, and Shaman's Pipes in the packs of all my
party members, I played with a party of four Paladins and four Archers. They
started at 50th level (see above), and I was able to defeat every monster in the
modern world. Eventually, there was no one and nothing they couldn't defeat in
less than three rounds, which got incredibly boring.

 Using S 9-4 (Enchant Item) and S 7-2 (Duplication), this group was outfitted
entirely in Gold Chain +50. The Paladins had Gold Helms and Gold Shields, also
+50. The Archers were equipped with Meteor Bows to increase their armor class,
and all eight carried Dark Tridents, again raising their Armor Classes.

 All of these characters had scores of 100 for each attribute (many trips to the
Circus), and used magical enhancements to raise some attributes even higher.
This was when I discovered that Attributes over 255 might cause problems when
the party tried to rest. Maximum armor class turns out to be 255, as does
maximum level. I don't know what the maximum number of hit points is, because
the game allows my characters to continue to go up in hit points at the Training
Centers, even though their levels are pegged (it's too hard to explain; if you
really want to know, drop me a message in The Gamers' Forum).
 !CompuServe TEG-10696


 Eventually, there was nothing left to do but fight the Mega-Dragon. We won,
although he managed to crunch King Kalohn before the party could engage him. It
was an incredibly boring fight, and the treasure was in a Silver Chest.

 Someone asked if I had enjoyed this, and I had to admit I didn't. I mostly
wanted to see what the limits of the game were, and I found out, so I guess
there is a little satisfaction there.

 What else I found out was that the game plays best with characters between 20th
and 50th level. I hope I managed to convey that message to you, because this is
a fun game if you don't mangle it!

 I hope that this guide can help users enjoy their game! Heartfelt thanks to
BigBad MaMa and Uncle Andy. Their input and encouragement made the writing of
this walkthru enjoyable, but I'm awfully glad it's done!

 MIGHT AND MAGIC II is published by New World Computing and distributed by
Electronic Arts.

 !CompuServe TEG-10697

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1990 by Dan Swanson. All rights reserved.
 !CompuServe TEG-9446

MIGHT AND MAGIC II

 1 Introduction, Character Tips
 2 Starting Out, Quests
 3 Character Devel