CompuServe CIS:TEG-15629




 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS
                    Part 1

 INTRODUCTION

 So, you want to be a sorcerer? You, Ernie Eaglebeak, sit in your drafty attic
room in the town of Port Gekko, dreaming of a life on the campus of Sorcerer
University. Classes (GIRLS!), lectures (PARTIES!), tests, fame, and fortune (not
to mention Lola Tigerbelly) await if only you can get away from the meanest
stepfather in Peloria: Joey Rottenwood. Fate has bigger plans in store for you
than you could ever imagine, however, as you travel through this pun-filled
adventure.

 NOTE: This walkthru will get you through the game in NICE mode. The encounters
in NAUGHTY mode are not that much different; I'm sure you'll be able to figure
out what to do. I found both modes enjoyable.

Press <CR> for more !



CompuServe CIS:TEG-15630

 ESCAPE!

 You begin the game in your attic room awaiting an unavoidable beating from your
stepfather. This time, you decide to make a break for it! But how? The door is
barred and you're a bit too high to just jump out. There are two ways out that I
know of, although I heard there's a third. Any way you go, you'll end up in the
same situation. The game starts at 3:35 p.m. Friday; each move takes 5 minutes,
and Joey Rottenwood is due to interrupt you at 4:00. So, either WAIT UNTIL 4:00,
or try fun stuff like EXAMINE ME or GET RAT.

 After Joey's visit, you realize escape is even more imperative because at 7:00,
a friend of Rottenwood's (he has friends?) is going to introduce you to the
wonderful world of dragon-tending. This will occupy you for the next seven
years, dashing your hopes of a career as a wizard (and ending the game). So, get
a move on, Eaglebeak!

 You don't need the application or love note in the writing desk, but read them
for laughs if you like, then get ready for your disgusting escape.

 Route one: OPEN LEFT WINDOW. OPEN RIGHT WINDOW. GET HAY. DROP HAY OUT RIGHT
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15632

WINDOW. JUMP OUT LEFT WINDOW.

 Route two: NORTH. OPEN TINY DOOR. GET POTTY. OPEN GRATE. DOWN. DROP POTTY. (You
really don't want to keep it, do you?)

 Both routes land you in the alley, filthy and naked, with your only way out
through the gate to the east; however, you can't go that way yet. Lola, the beat
of your heart, has caught her dress on the gate. You'd die of embarrassment if
she saw you in this state! To make things worse, Joey appears to "help" Lola.
But wait! There's a pair of overalls in the shed to the west.

 Unfortunately, the shed door is locked. Fortunately, the key is under the flat
rock nearby. Unfortunately, you can't get it. Try MOVE ROCK and GET KEY.

 Where'd that foot come from? It's attached to your old teacher, Miss
Beancounter, spinster. Lucky for you she's blind as a bat. But if you give her a
chance to find her spectacles, clean them, put them on, and get a GOOD look at
you, you're dead. What to do? Desperate times call for desperate measures. PUSH
BEANCOUNTER. GET KEY. UNLOCK SHED DOOR WITH KEY. OPEN SHED DOOR. Go west, GET
OVERALLS, WEAR OVERALLS, and go east twice.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15634


 Clad in overalls, Joey mistakes you for the gardener, Jimmy Risingmoon, and
lets you plow through amidst vile threats. You then make your way to Sorcerer
University's Donkeydung Hall. Your dream of entering the hallowed halls is about
to be realized (IF you have your registration form!).

 GET IN LINE (this is a good spot to save) and WAIT until you're asked to answer
several questions (the game's copy protection is based on documentation checks).

 SORCERER U.

 The story picks up a few weeks into the term: You are heading across Batguano
Court. If you like, read the school newspaper. Besides being rather humorous,
you'll notice a change each day (today is Tuesday) as sinister forces encroach.

 GET PAPER. READ NEWS. READ ARTS. READ SPORTS. READ EDITORIAL.

 It should be about time for the early afternoon class, Mythology 101. Head for
the appropriate location (you do have a schedule, don't you?), sit, and TAKE
NOTES when class begins. Keep waiting until class is over, then go northeast
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15789

from Meltingwolf Hall to Professor Tickingclock's office to receive an
invitation to dinner Wednesday night at 7:30.

 NOTE: Attending classes, taking notes, and dinner with Prof. Tickingclock are
not crucial to completing the game, but:

 A) The classes burn time, provide useful information (if you're not reading the
entire walkthru), and are amusing (as are the notes you take).

 B) If you skip dinner with the Professor, you'll miss some background
information on The Sorcerer's Appliance, and -- more importantly for the lusty
players in NAUGHTY mode -- you'll miss an encounter with Hillary Tickingclock!

 C) You do want to be a good student!

 After the late afternoon class, Ethics 101, there are a few ways to pass the
time until the all-important frat parties that start at 8:00 p.m. You can watch
the endless game of Malls 'n' Muggers being played in Frogkisser Hall, explore
your room, visit the frat houses, or just WAIT UNTIL 7:55. Then, from Batguano
Court, go southwest, WAIT twice, then open the SKONN BOX (once Bo Soundofthunder
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15791

gives it to you). Go northeast, northwest, WAIT until 8:30, and answer YES (when
Gretchen Snowbunny asks for your help). Now, go south, east, PUT GRETCHEN IN
BED, SEARCH GRETCHEN, and GET KEY.

 This first night at Sorcerer's U. you're more tired than you are most nights,
so you may just want to REST. However, if you're eager for points, you should
have enough time to get the FRIMP spell in the President's House. If not,
there's plenty of time to do that later.

 Wherever you fall asleep, when you awaken: GET KEY, SPELL BOOK, NOTEBOOK. The
rest of the stuff is unnecessary. (If you had the NAUGHTY encounter with
Gretchen, GET CLOAK and WEAR CLOAK...you oversexed devil, you!) It's now
Wednesday morning. Head to Batguano Court and check out the new issue of the
school paper if you wish, then attend your morning class: Spellcasting 101!

 After the early afternoon class on magical creatures, you've got time for some
spell-gathering and scoring (point-gathering, eager beaver!) before your dinner
date (you're excused from the late afternoon class, Physical Skills 101, due to
a slightly sprained pinkie). Go southwest from Frogkisser Hall to the Boat Dock.
UNLOCK DOOR WITH KEY, OPEN DOOR, and go northwest. OPEN FRIMP BOX. Go southwest,
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15793

east, northeast, up, and SKONN STATUETTE (this, I'm sorry to say, is the only
use for that bust-enlarging spell). CLIMB STATUETTE, OPEN KABBUL BOX, and go
down. GET POPULAR BOOK (endgame surprise!), go down, FRIMP TRAP DOOR, OPEN TRAP
DOOR, and go down. Save the game here.

 You've entered the "Maize." Each room has a letter: You want to move through
the rooms spelling the phrase, T-H-I-S-W-A-Y-O-U-T, and end up in the southwest
corner where a trap door will open. So, take the following route:

 Southeast, south, east twice, and southwest. West, south, west twice, down, and
OPEN DISPAR BOX. Up, northeast, north three times, and FRIMP TRAP DOOR. OPEN
TRAP DOOR and go up.

 Nothing much else to do today (Wednesday) but to attend the dinner party in
Tickingclock's suite (upstairs from Frogkisser Hall), where you can listen to
the Professor ramble on about the Sorcerer's Appliance, examine the surfboard,
and help Hillary with the dishes afterward (NICE mode). Then, just REST until
morning.

 Thursday morning, grab a paper: Things are getting really weird! Attend your
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15795

morning class, Math and Science 101, then just go to the Simulation Lab (East
from Meltingwolf Hall), and WAIT until your disheveled mother appears to give
you the talisman. She'll be abducted, you'll be knocked out, and awaken to find
the University in ruins.

 Well, the good news is you won't have to turn in those class assignments. The
bad news is everyone's gone, the strange Sorcerer's Appliance is gone, and it
appears you're stuck on the island. But you're educated enough to use the DISPAR
spell on the surfboard in Tickingclock's suite. First, you want to go to the
Simulation Lab (if you're not there already). If you've been through the
simulation before, you know the simulation spells are always removed at the end
by a professor. Now, however, there's no one left to remove them, and you can
get them (GUB, VAI, ZEM) permanently. Here's how to do it: SIT, GUB TREE, ZEM
ME, and go south. FIGHT ATOMIC DRAGON WITH SWORD, VAI IVY, and CLIMB IVY. PUSH
LEVER and OPEN SHACKLES.

 Then, end the simulation with either OPEN TRAP DOOR or CLIMB DOWN. The spells
you gain are needed at Fort Blackwand. Now, go to the Professor's suite, DISPAR
SURFBOARD, and GET SURFBOARD. OPEN BLUBBA BOX, go down, and southwest.

Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15797

 You arrive on the boat dock just in time to hear Professor Peelerofsmallfigs
fill you in on the tragic happenings before he expires. So, it's up to you to
find the Sorcerer's Appliance and save the world. PUT SURFBOARD IN WATER and GET
ON SURFBOARD. Set the left and right dials to the latitude and longitude of the
Island of Lost Souls (the foot-shaped island), and PUSH RED BUTTON.

 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS is published by Legend
Entertainment and distributed by Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1991 by Venger. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15799




 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS
                    Part 2

 THE ISLAND OF LOST SOULS

 If you set the coordinates correctly (use the map), you should hit land at The
Island of Lost Souls. Reading the sign, you discover that there are 80 souls
here, imprisoned in non-human forms by Lars Stormkiller as a penalty for
stiffing a cobbler named Waldo Bootlacer. The description of each object is a
punny clue to the name of the Lost Soul imprisoned within. The KABBUL spell will
restore the soul when used in the form KABBUL NAME. With this in mind, let's
begin. (80 souls is a lot: As one gamer said, "Just be glad the city of Chicago
didn't stiff the guy!")

 The Meadow (5 Souls): Blaise (big fire); Ashley (powdery embers); Charlotte
(blackened hayfield); Bernie (damaged leg joint); Bea (flying insect).

Press <CR> for more !





CompuServe CIS:TEG-15800

 Down by the Riverside (6 Souls): Rod (fishing pole); Barb (fish hook with sharp
point); Bridgit (pronounced span); Sandford (gritty crossing); Clifford
(rock-walled crossing); Brooke (small stream).

 West of House (8 Souls): Jim (large metal playset); Peg (short wooden dowel);
Jack (lifting device); Carmen (male passengers in auto); Mikey (lock opening
device inscribed with "Yours") Belle (glowing button); Matt (rectangular,
bristly pad); Dolly (handtruck).

 In the Forest (7 Souls): Dawn (sun on east horizon); Woodrow (logs in straight
line); Gail (strong wind); Leif (lone bit of foliage); Ernest (ornamental vases
in bird home); Wolfgang (dog-like carnivores humming); Robin (red-breasted
bird).

 Living Room (16 Souls): OPEN SAFE: Chip (poker pot); Adlai (false claim);
Nicholas (accounting statement); Ty (man's silk neck ornament); Adam
(indivisible particle); Jules (gems in safe); Penny (cent in safe); Buck (dollar
coin in safe); Will (legal document in safe).

 You must KABBUL the contents below first: Wilhelm (Will's son, heir to ship
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15802

steering wheel); William (Will's gardener, heir to sweet potato); Wilma (Will's
mother, heir to herself); Wilbur (Will's grandson, heir to sticky seed pod);
Willie (Will's nephew, heir to fifth letter of alphabet); Wilton (Will's
chiropractor, heir to 2000 pound weight); Pierre (stuffed moose, heir to small,
round green vegetable)

 Kitchen (7 Souls): Waldo (uncooked bread batter on vertical surfaces of room);
Patty (flat circle of ground beef); Stu (hearty soup); Ricky (alcoholic lime
drink); Sherry (bottle of nutty wine); Pat (tiny square of butter); Frank (hot
dog).

 Attic (7 Souls): Bo (tied silky ribbon) "Bo knows KABBUL spells!"; Bill (duck
with long, flat beak); Kermit (canine baseball glove); Bunny (young rabbit);
Teddy (koala bear); Tom (male cat); Knute (salamander).

 East Cellar (10 souls): Archie (large curved letter); Hardy (tough, unyielding
letter); Lucy (letter dressed like a tramp); Dusty (letter covered with powdery
debris); Gabby (chatty letter); Betty (gambling letter); Lacey (fringed letter);
Connie (hustling letter); Goldie (letter made of shiny yellow metal); Daisy
(disoriented letter).
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15804


 Sound Studio (8 Souls): Mike (recording device); Humphrey (silent vacuum tube);
Carol (joyous Christmas song); Noel (cheery note with "No L"); Blair (unruly
sound); Cy (long moan); Winnie (soft neighing of horse); Melody (tuneful song).

 British Aisles (6 Souls): Gaylord (prancing nobleman); Lulu (two toilet bowls);
Lucille (wax toilet closure); Bobby (police officer); Billy (nightstick); Laurie
(truck).

 Whew! One move after restoring the last soul, the restored islanders will carry
you back to the meadow. Among the accolades heaped upon you, you are presented
with a big key to an island! Oh, well, we'll cover that later. For now, GET ON
SURFBOARD, set the dials for The Island where Time Runs Backwards (the island
with the hourglass), then PUSH RED BUTTON. You're off!

 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS is published by Legend
Entertainment and distributed by Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1991 by Venger. All rights reserved.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15628

SPELLCASTING 101

 1 Introduction, Escape, Sorcerer
    University
 2 Island of Lost Souls
 3 Island Where Time Runs Backwards,
    Island of the Amazons, Restaurant
    at the End of the Ocean
 4 Island of the Gods, Fort Blackwand,
    Stunning Climax
Enter choice
CompuServe CIS:TEG-10873

WALKTHRCompuServe CIS:TEG-15807




 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS
                    Part 3

 THE ISLAND WHERE TIME RUNS BACKWARDS

 Well, if you thought you'd been through some strange stuff already, wait till
you arrive (leave?) at (from?) this island. You're going to star (you have just
starred?) in a production of "Goldilocks and the Three Mud Devils" (scene 14,
take 187 -- you must be a lousy actor!). Somehow, you're dressed for the part
with a dress and golden hair. Strange, you're covered with dried mud, you just
fell off your surfboard, you're undigesting your last meal, and things just
don't feel right. Stranger still, someone just entered. GET ON THE SURFBOARD.

 What's happening here? Simple, you're playing the part in reverse: Time flows
backwards, and you must enter the command that would cause the OPPOSITE effect
that you read in the preceding text. Since you fell off the surfboard, you GET
ON THE SURFBOARD. That was a freebie; from here, you're on your own! Understand?
Press <CR> for more !




CompuServe CIS:TEG-15809

I hope so because any mistake rips the fabric of time and ends the game!

 Well, next, you're yelled at by the director for dropping a piece of waybread,
and a large piece of waybread rises into your hand. So, DROP LARGE WAYBREAD.
Next, you walk backward to the north. So, naturally, you enter south. Okay, I'm
not going to waste CIS's valuable space describing everything that's going to
happen (unhappen?): I'll let you see for yourself. Go southwest, JUMP OUT
WINDOW, and WAIT twice.

 By the sound of things, it seems that the mud devils came home, noticed that
someone had been playing chess with their nuns (NICE mode), someone had been
eating their waybread, and sitting in their mudbaths. The baby mud devil
discovered you in his mudbath, so you jumped out the window. Let's proceed: GET
IN SMALL MUDBATH, GET IN MEDIUM MUDBATH, then GET IN LARGE MUDBATH. Go up, EAT
SMALL WAYBREAD, EAT MEDIUM WAYBREAD, and EAT LARGE WAYBREAD. PLAY CHESS WITH
SMALL NUN, PLAY CHESS WITH MEDIUM NUN, and PLAY CHESS WITH LARGE NUN.

 Okay, now that you've finished (started?) the Mud Devils' house, it's time to
proceed to the end (beginning?) of the scene. Go east, OPEN DOOR, READ SIGN, and
go northwest. EXAMINE PEDESTAL and go north.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15811


 Oops! It appears you arrived on the set with a BUNDEROT spell box in your hand,
and you're totally out of character! GIVE BUNDEROT BOX TO DIRECTOR and GET OFF
SURFBOARD.

 Suddenly, time resumes its forward progress, and you're on the surfboard with a
BUNDEROT spell box (bet you were wondering what this weird sequence was all
about, weren't you?). OPEN BUNDEROT BOX. Now, set the surfboard dials for The
Island of the Amazons (the Island with a woman on it). PUSH RED BUTTON, and get
ready for some real exertion!

 THE ISLAND OF THE AMAZONS

 If you read the back of the game box, you've probably been itching to get to
this place for a while. Your only legitimate purpose here is to get one little
item, but you'll be lucky to get away alive! These women hardly ever get a man
on their island; they're so desperate for one, they'll even take scrawny, nerdy
sorcerers (no offense intended, Ernie!). Every time you turn around, they'll be
needing your "assistance." So, resign yourself to some heavy-duty "work," and go
southwest to the Parade Grounds.
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15813


 You'll be greeted by the Amazon Leader who will direct you to the V.I.P. suite
to the west. Go ahead: There's no sense putting off the unavoidable. After she
avails herself of your "services," OPEN HOPE CHEST. Argh! Ambushed! Now you know
what this Amazon was "hoping" for! After this encounter, GET SHOES, LOOK UNDER
BED, FRIMP BED, and GET BONNET.

 You're bound to be interrupted again while doing this. Getting tired yet?
You've got to make a break for it, soon! Unfortunately, these women will never
let a man leave, but a woman (or a reasonable facsimile) could sneak out. You
have a choice: Die from exertion, having earned the gratitude of the Amazons, or
just NEARLY die from embarrassment as you sneak past in drag! You've got the
high heel shoes and bonnet, so go up through the air vent.

 You're now in the S.I.P. (Somewhat Important Person) suite. There's a closet,
so OPEN CLOSET and GET GOWN.

 You're sure to be ambushed by the maid: Just grin and bear (bare) it; then go
up again to get back to the V.I.P. suite. If you're a glutton for punishment (by
now this routine is becoming just that!), open the door of the S.I.P. suite
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15815

first. Next, go east to the Parade Ground, then south to the general store to be
abused, this time by the shopkeeper. Afterwards, GET SWORD and LIPSTICK.

 You can read the magazine in the shop if you like; it gives you the distinct
impression the Sorcerer's Appliance and The Five Great Attachments have been
taken to Fort Blackwand. Next, you need to make your costume change. If you're
in NICE mode (nobody would be in NAUGHTY mode on THIS island, WOULD they?), you
can't remove your cloak in front of the lady! Head back to the V.I.P. suite.
Then, REMOVE CLOAK, WEAR SHOES, WEAR GOWN, WEAR BONNET, and WEAR LIPSTICK.

 If you're lucky, you'll finish dressing without another ambush. High-tail it
back to your surfboard (east and northeast) past the sniggering Amazons in the
Parade Ground, then change back into your normal garb by removing the
fashionable garments and wearing your cloak. GET ON SURFBOARD, and set the dials
for the Restaurant at the End of The Ocean: You NEED some nourishment after what
you've just been through!

 THE RESTAURANT AT THE END OF THE OCEAN

 Unfortunately, you're not going to have time to eat here: The popular
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15817

restaurant will go from boom to bust in a few moves (remember your Ethics 101
lecture on the six stages in the life-cycle of a good restaurant?). There's a
spell floating in mid-air above the water; you'll have to get it in a roundabout
fashion. GET MAJJELLO BOX (watch your fingers!).

 So, now that little Pygmy Shark has your spell box! Well, as long as you've
come this far, go inside and check out the menu. Go north and EXAMINE MENU.
Maurice, your friendly waiter, is at your service. Hm, the Pygmy Shark looks
delicious, doesn't it? ORDER PYGMY SHARK. Boy, this is one hot spot! WAIT. Gee,
suddenly the prices have gone up, they're cutting back on "extras," and the
waiter's getting rather rude! Ah, here's your order!

 Alas, you'll never be able to eat the whole thing, and they don't allow any
takeouts. So, BUNDEROT SHARK (what a waste of food!). There's that spell box the
shark ate (poetic justice, eh?). You've just got time to OPEN MAJJELLO BOX
before the eatery goes bust and you get kicked out (you're not going to tip
Maurice, are you?).

 Back outside (by the Sail-Thru window), GET ON SURFBOARD, and set the dials for
the latitude and longitude of The Island of the Gods! Oops, what's wrong with
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15819

the right dial? You can't seem to find the latitude setting. (Oh Boy! A puzzle!
A puzzle!) No problem for a wizard of your caliber: Just MAJJELLO RIGHT DIAL,
set the right dial again, PUSH RED BUTTON, and you're off!

 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS is published by Legend
Entertainment and distributed by Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1991 by Venger. All rights reserved.
Last page !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15821




 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS
                    Part 4

 THE ISLAND OF THE GODS

 Through your incredible adventures, you've managed to get the necessary items
to go where few mortals have gone before: the fabled Island of the Gods! Your
surfboard comes to a halt at the Gateway of the Gods -- a huge portal which just
happens to be locked, denying you entrance. But, you just happen to have the key
to that portal, given to you by the grateful Mayor Blaise! So, UNLOCK ISLAND
WITH BIG KEY, and go north twice.

 Passing through the Garden of the Gods, you enter the Condo of the Gods, a
beautiful lobby with apartments to the east and west. To the east is the abode
of Baccarat and Bagatelle, gods of war and peace, respectively. Not much is
going to happen here, the real "action" is to be found in the west apartment
where Ocarina and Glockenspiel make their home.
Press <CR> for more !




CompuServe CIS:TEG-15822


 Glock, god of ugliness, is insanely jealous when it comes to Ock, and the last
thing a mere mortal wants to do is be caught alone in Ock's presence when Glock
shows up. So, HIDE BEHIND DRAPES, and WAIT until Ock and Glock enter the
apartment. They have a heated argument over Glock's suspicions that SOMEONE has
been helping Ock do crossword puzzles (NICE mode), and that she hasn't been
letting him help her with them for 67,912 weeks!

 After Glock storms off in a rage, Ock sneaks out the latest puzzle, and as you
WAIT, you watch her strain her brain. You have an intense DESIRE to help her,
and finally you blurt out the answer to a toughie, attracting the goddess of
beauty's attention. Well, you just have to continue, so HELP OCARINA WITH
PUZZLE.

 After a thoroughly enjoyable (intellectual) experience with Ock, she gives you
a reward in the form of a GWEEK spell box. But wait! Is that Glock's heavy
footstep approaching? No time to hide; you're about to become one melted mortal!
Oh well, at least you can get another spell and a few points before you become
ancient history. OPEN GWEEK BOX.

 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15824

 Glockenspiel barges in ready to toast you! But instead, he drags you outside to
the Garbage Dump of the Gods, north of the Condo. A millennium's worth of
garbage is accumulated here, and Glock has volunteered you to clean it ALL up!
(Maybe death by lightning bolt would be more merciful.) Fortunately, you have
the means to handle it. GWEEK GARBAGE DUMP, then BUNDEROT GARBAGE DUMP.

 Behold! You have done what all the gods could not (or were too lazy to do): You
have recycled the Garbage Dump of the Gods into the Meadow of the Gods (it
should have been Ernie's Meadow, in my opinion)! In the process, you uncovered a
GOBERDUNA spell box, hidden for ages. You also seem to have started an argument
among the gods over the new use for the meadow. Time to make your exit. OPEN
GOBERDUNA BOX, go south three times, and LOCK ISLAND WITH BIG KEY (you don't
want these omnipotent, immature beings unleashed, do you?).

 Now, GET ON SURFBOARD and set the controls for Fort Blackwand, where you know
the Sorcerer's Appliance has been taken. PUSH RED BUTTON, and you soon arrive at
the Lagoon, where the dreaded Loch Pick Monster blocks your path. No sweat! Just
GOBERDUNA SERPENT, and the knotty problem is solved!

 FORT BLACKWAND
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15826


 Head east from the lagoon. Does this look familiar? This is the castle in the
Sorcerer U. simulation lab! This time, however, you've got to get it right the
first time. Okay, Equipment check: Lead-plated sword? Got the GUB, ZEM, and VAI
spells from the simulator? Well, then, GUB TREE, ZEM ME, and go south. FIGHT
ATOMIC DRAGON WITH SWORD, VAI IVY, then CLIMB IVY. PUSH LEVER and OPEN SHACKLES.

 Surprise, surprise! The damsel in the revealing dress is Lola Tigerbelly! She's
pretty bossy, Ernie; what DO you see in her? TAKE PURSE. (Hey, you've already
been in drag, so what's wrong with carrying a purse?) Among other things, her
purse contains a flamethrower, just what every defenseless damsel needs for the
occasional mugger or kidnaper (why didn't it help her this time, you wonder?).

 You must stop the fiend from using the Sorcerer's appliance to destroy the
world. So, overcome your fear of the unknown, OPEN TRAP DOOR, and go down.

 Before you are three gates of Bronze, Silver, and Gold. Before each gate is an
"X," also wrought in Bronze, Silver, and Gold. Standing on an "X" opens the gate
of its color. Unfortunately, you can't stand on all three at once. Luckily, you
can tell Lola to stand on one. This still leaves you one person short. But,
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15829

isn't that picture on the wall rather familiar? Nice piece of "Art!" STAND ON
GOLD X. LOLA, STAND ON SILVER X. KABBUL ART. ART, STAND ON BRONZE X.

 The way your heartthrob Lola reacts to Art's appearance should make your blood
boil! Again I ask, WHAT DO YOU SEE IN HER? Oh, well, with all three gates open,
go west where you will encounter....

 THE STUNNING CLIMAX!

 You enter a huge chamber wherein rests the Sorcerer's Appliance! Also, the
chamber just happens to hold Professor Tickingclock, who's manacled to a wall,
as well as the hideous monster who did so many horrible things, including the
the despicable act of ravaging Lola! Yes, this beast must be the worst creature
in all Peloria: your stepfather, Joey Rottenwood!

 You may as well WAIT while Rottenwood tells his story. (Isn't that always what
happens in the movies? You're forced to listen to the villain tell his entire
life's story? There ought to be a law!). But, when Joey prepares (with a
dramatic pause) to press both buttons on the Appliance at once, it's time for
Ernie Eaglebeak to make his move!
 !CompuServe CIS:TEG-15831


 Remember that delightful book, "Endgame Surprise," that you just haven't been
able to put down? GIVE POPULAR BOOK TO JOEY. Rottenwood, instantly absorbed in
the book, is no longer able to press both buttons simultaneously! He sits down,
totally engrossed at the prospect of a good read, and triggers the destruct mode
on the Sorcerer's Appliance! A spell box, EKSLAKSIA (spell of unloading), falls
out of the machine! Tickingclock informs you that in 15 minutes (that's three
moves) the Appliance will explode, taking this corner of Peloria with it; the
only way to override it is to dump at seven tons of whale poop on it!

 (Aren't you on the edge of your seat right now?)

 Fifteen minutes: CAST BLUBBA. If you've done this before, you know the whale
knocks your spell book out of your hands. With 10 minutes (two moves) left, you
can't GET BOOK, OPEN EKSLAKSIA BOX, and CAST EKSLAKSIA. So, what do you do, now?

 Ten minutes: You make the ultimate sacrifice: BURN SPELL BOOK. Your most prized
possesion goes up in smoke as the flamethrower blasts it! Why, oh, why did you
do it? (My apologies to Legend Entertainment and Steve Meretzky: I have to give
away this little secret from the manual). If you open a spell box in the
Press <CR> for more !
CompuServe CIS:TEG-15833

presence of your spell book, it goes into the book. Otherwise, the spell is cast
and lost.

 Five minutes: OPEN EKSLAKSIA BOX. The spell, with no direction, has the general
effect of causing everyone (including the whale) to dump their loads. The
Appliance's destruct sequence is aborted, everyone is free -- the entire
Sorcerer U. gang, your mother, and Rottenwood (who slinks away). The Appliance
is taken through a portal to the sequel, and Tickingclock transports you all
back to the University. Lola runs off to Balmoral City to shop, you get hit with
a huge tuition bill, reprimanded for using level 5 spells, and advanced out of
Spellcasting 101 to return in SPELLCASTING 201: THE SORCERER'S APPLIANCE.

 SPELLCASTING 101: SORCERERS GET ALL THE GIRLS is published by Legend
Entertainment and distributed by Electronic Arts.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1991 by Venger. All rights reserved.
Last page !