        Since Space Quest IV is out(either it's beta version of
real version) and it is just amazingly great, here's the
storyline of Space Quest series so far...

        Roger Wilco, the janitor and yourself, was having a nap
in the closet as usual in the mother ship. And suddenly Roger
heard a big crash and screaming. After while, he went out and
everyone died and there were few aliens seeking human to kill.
Vohaul took the Star Generator, the artificial sun for planet
Xenon, Vohaul's gonna use it for weapons, in the Space Quest I,
the object of the game is destroy the Star Generator. Time
passes, a lot of adventures and thrillings... finally you destroy
Star Generator and be a hero of Xenon and Space Quest I: The
Sarien Encounter is over with glory.

        Now as usual, inspite of your herotical job on first
one, our hero Roger is cleaning the outside of ship. And you hear
the buzz calling him... now Vohaul wants to kill Roger! He is
kidnapped by those aliens. But on the way the fuel ran out and
our hero Roger gets chance to escape. And his another adventure
begins... finally he finds Vohaul and just right before Vohaul
make fake android salesmen, our hero Roger kills Vohaul with his
plan... now he has done two things! Roger now wants to go back to
his planet Xenon, he set automatic pilot and get into little
sleep... that's end of Space Quest II: Vohaul's Revenge.

        While the little pod was going to planet Xenon, the
pirates finds the pod and just put them in their garbage and
tresure place just in case they might need it later... now our
Roger is somewhere in universe where he doesn't even know why he
is there. He picks up few things and get a new ship and escape
from pirates' ship. Now he is hanging around and he just happened
to see the help wanted by two guys from andromeda. Our hero can't
pass that message! He finally rescue two guys and at the same
time rescue the universe by destroying their ultimate weapons. At
the end, Two guyd and Roger happened to land on California, USA.
Specifically in the parking lot of Sierra On Line company. Ken
came out and hire Two guys from andromeda as programmer, but
tough luck for our Roger, Ken doesn't need any janitor. So our
hero Roger going back to his planet finally... at least he
tries... that's the end of Space Quest III: The Pirates of
Pestulon.

        Now, Space Quest IV he still tries to go back to Xenon,
but this time he is right place in wrong time. He is in Space
Quest XII! He got to stop that main computer's ruling and turn
back to clock... but the ultimate goal of Space Quest IV is go
back to Space Quest IV... his homeland at his time...

        This was Space Quest series story, hope it gives you more
fun with your playing Space Quest IV: Time Ripper.


                                        ICEMAN



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
