 PART Fourteen OF 15 PRINCIPIA ENTROPIUS
 ____________________________________

  Know O Beleivers, that the number 13 is considered Unlucky, and no
 chapter of Principia Entropius was Written, in the number 13.

 Released From:    Anaximander
 Originally To:    St.Paper Dragon           
subject: generalisimo Franco Frunaldi
        
        I remember the last astral travel my companion and I took. We hopped
the magic bus and took a left at Malkut. We ended up ina holding pattern
underneath Ireland. I noticed that we were circling around a small Leprechuan
who was playing the nose-flute. I asked him why he had a proclivity for
instruments that were not to his ethnicity. He simply replied that he had
tried to take up the digery-doo but it was hard to play when you could fit
your whole head in the mouthpiece. We pondered this for a moment, stopped at
the shiva-shine buswash, and headed to the third star to the left and straight
on till evening. This is the nasty opposite to never-never land. The found
boys have a pretty good strip bar there.


 ++++++============================================++++++++++++++
 (Note there was a 13th Chapter of Principia Entropius, but it was eaten
 by Mr. Momotos Brother.)


 Monk speaking to God after having spent a faithful life in Celibacy:
  "You mean, it was "CElebrate"...WE had it all wrong?"

  ---------------
  Corinthians 9:12
  Ren and Stimpy are Role-Models for Children, they should be left 
 Unnattended to Watch The show, for hours at a time. They are to be 
 considered Demi-gods spawned of Eris's own Phlegm.

  (note Celibate Monk who had mis-read the Scriptures, Had only occaisonally
 molested Choir-boys and so was allowed to enter Paradise.)
                (MEDICAL FACT OF KNOWLEDGE)
     
     It seems you are quite unaware of the medical value of the sperm of a
mature spider monkey.

     It seems that when such sperm is generously applied to areas of human
skin with a particularly advanced stage of wrinkling, within days, there seems
to be a pronounced tightening of the skin.  The wrinkles seem to disappear. It
leaves the individual looking 10 to 20 years younger than they would normally
appear.  Although totally cosmetic in nature, multiple applications of spider
monkey sperm can essentially erase 10 to 20 years from your physical
appearance.

(Very few people know that there are over 200 milligrams of Spider Monkey
sperm
in Oil of Olay.  This is very controversial since the FDA has not yet given
its seal of approval to its use.)

     Although the scientific community is conducting on-going research trying
to unharness other possible uses for this "wonder liquid", it is ironic to
note that the initial discovery of its powers came about quite by accident. It
seems Dick Clark, as a child, had many spider monkey pets.  Before he would
put them to bed at night, it became a ritual for him to tell them bedtime
stories.  But his stories were always very erotic and would cause the spider
monkeys to ejaculate uncontrollably, dousing young Dick with their sperm.  The
long term effects were astounding.  To this day, Dick Clark appears *decades*
younger than he actually is.  And, he always travels with a group of spider
monkeys wherever he goes.

     Doctors and scientists are well aware of this tightening effect the sperm
has on human skin.  But, thus far, they have not been able to find other
useful medical purposes.  Supposedly, it makes an excellent salad topping as
well.

     But, the tightening of the skin effect is profound and could have
widespread ramifications in the appearance of future aged Americans.  By the
year, 2050, if spider monkey sperm should ever get final approval by the FDA,
the appearance of an 80-yr-old man could be exactly the same as a 30-yr-old.
Johnson & Johnson's Corporation already has obtained legal first rights to
market the product when it becomes available (supposedly under the name ...
MONK-KUM)  Also, the marketing researchers at Johnsons & Johnson's are
considering mixing it with spermicidal jelly.
     So, do not be too quick to kill any spider monkeys, 

            --Dr.Emerling
            Mutual of Oklahoma
            Illuminatus Front Organization

 \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\//////////////////////
" Its been said that Poetry consists of letting the word be heard beyond
words. And Goethe says, "All things are Metaphors." Everything thats
transitory is but a metaphorical reference. Thats what we all are."
                    -----Joseph Campbell
                         The Power of Myth, Pg 230.


   "I do not like Green Eggs and Ham"
                -Dr.Suess



 Official Religous Titles OF froot_loops, Miscellaneous Grab-bag,
 available to any that claim them:

ADVICE GUY!

INQUISTITOR OF THE PAINFUL STICK

WEILDER OF THE POINTED STICK

JUSTICIAR OF ASSISTANCE

TOADLICKER

BUTTWIPE J.g (junior Grade)

ASSISTANT FARTKNOCKER

LIUETENANT DILLHOLE OF THE PEE PEE DANCE

 you may only choose one, and that title is for Eternity, unless Otherwise
 notified.


