
[*************************************]
[   An addition to:                   ]
[Real Sysops and Unreal Board Crashers]
[         Real BBS Users              ]
[*************************************]

  Written By The Master Watchman
            of
     The Encounter (619) 433-7075

---------------------------------------

  Well, as inspired by The Silver Elf,
I have decided to make an addition to
the lists. Hopefully it will get at
least a few laughs. (Especially to
us Real Sysops!)

---------------------------------------
Real users do not scan all the boards
and read all the messages looking for
something exciting.

Real users post occasionally something
of interest which does NOT include:
    Backspacing tips
    Messages saying "Just taking up
                     space"
    Messages asking for E-Mail
    Messages saying "Got some new stuff
                     .. Send mail."
    Messages telling about "A Micro-
     modem for sale! $215"
                or
    Messages saying they will trade
    a MM for an Apple-Cat in working
    condition.

Real users don't try every command on
the main menu, then try them again to
see if they do something amazingly
different.

Real users don't automatically assume
The Sysop will be there all the time,
and don't get annoyed and press Ctrl-G
10,000 times when he's not there.

Real users don't expect the Sysop Stat
message to say anything but "Not
available"

Real users don't constantly bug The
Sysop for levels.

Real users do things to deserve levels.

Real users do not leave stupid questions
in feedback or messages and expect
answers.

Real users do not look for important
people in your user file and then start
supporting them and sending them E-Mail
hoping to pick up some great tips or be
recognized as a "Real Pirate" from them.

Real users are not poor.

Real users do not expect The Sysop to
remember everything they have ever
said, Real users understand that they
are not the most important figure on
the board.

Real users do not command search. (I.E.
A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,...,!,@,#,$,%,^,&,*)

Real users read the system news when it
has been updated so they don't have to
command search.

Real users have long since printed out
the menu and other things so they do
not have to continually return to them.

Real users do not call right back after
their time is up.

Real users are not afraid when The
Sysop answers the phone. Real users
will at least acknowledge that they are
there.

Real users don't expect the board to be
up all 24 hours all the time.

Real users are not terminally boring.

On the War board:
Real users do not create stupid wars
like "Pepsi vs. Coke".

Real users are not afraid to post with
their name. Real users hardly ever post
anonymously.

Real users enjoy killing unreal users
with Apples who post that their
toy is best.

In fact, real users do not reply to
Apples, they find out their
address and destroy their house.

