The following two reports are reprinted from GREEN EGG, #77:

_________________________________________________________________


OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON HIS 
INVESTIGATION OF THE JOHN TODD/LANCE COLLINS AFFAIR IN DAYTON 
OHIO

1:  There is insufficient hard evidence of an unusually harsh 
harrassment campaign against Todd, on RELIGIOUS GROUNDS, to 
warrant continued AADL attention or intervention.

2:  There is more than sufficient soft evidence to indicate that 
Todd may be using his own peculiar version of the religion known 
as Witchcraft as cover for illegal, immoral and/or infiltrative 
purposes.

3:  It would definitely be advisable for as many different 
Federal, State and Local law enforcement agencies as possible to 
investigate Todd's past and present activities.

4:  We should expect a number of wild accusations from Todd about 
heinous crimes and attitudes on the part of myself, Dr. Gavin 
Frost, the Aquarian Anti-Defamation League, Inc., the Church and 
School of Wicca, the Church of All Worlds, the American Order of 
the Brotherhood of the Wicca, Inc., and other Pagan, Occult and 
Witchcraft organizations of an Aquarian nature.

5:  Dr. Frost and I have been unable to find a single legitimate 
Witch, Pagan or Occultist, inside or outside of Dayton, willing 
to serve as a character reference for Todd.  On the contrary, 
every Aquarian wiht whom we have discussed Todd has emphatically 
disassociated himself or herself from Todd's beliefs and 
activities.  Todd is NOT representative of the Dayton Aquarian 
community in any way.

6:  Between AADL and the C&SoW, we have spent a great deal of 
time, energy, and money on this case, for which we have received 
no positive return.  I therefore recommend that we avoid further 
expenditures of these valuable commodities upon ths matter.

Respectfully submitted, this 23rd day of February, 1976 c.e.

                                                 P.E.I. Bonewits,
                                                 President, AADL

_________________________________________________________________


                         THE DAYTON CAPER
                           Final Report

    On Sunday 22 Februrary the following Resolution was passed 
unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Church and School of 
Wicca:

               Resolution to Rescind School Charter

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the Church and School 
of Wicca that said Religious Association rescind and nullify the 
Church Charter issued to the "Watchers Church of Wicca" in 
Dayton, Ohio.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that J.W. Todd aka Lance Collins, and 
Sheila Spoonmore aka Sheila Todd aka Deona, be defrocked and made 
unwelcome by the Church.

    The reasons for this action lie in the investigative reports 
of Gavin Frost and Isaac Bonewits (Aquarian Anti-Defamation 
League) who went to Dayton to examine the case.  For a copy of 
the AADL report, write to Isaac Bonewits Box 3720, Minneapolis, 
55403, enclosing a donation.  Briefly, the investigation showed 
no evidence of harrassment by law-enforcement agencies but turned 
up considerable evidence soft evidence that the Todds are using 
the cover of Witchcraft to corrupt minors.

    Following is a copy of the report made by Gavin Frost to the 
Board of Trustees:

1.  Despite the fact that the Church has in its hand a notarized 
sworn statement that the Todds are initiated Witches, there is

    (1)  Evidence that, though emotionally convincing, would not
stand up in a court of law.

    (2)  The real relationship between the Todds is unclear.  
John Todd introduced her as his wife; previously she had been 
introduced as his sister.  No believable evidence that they are 
or ever have been initiated.  Claims by Todd that his mother 
initiated him while she was a member of Gardner's Isle of Man 
coven have been checked.  No American and no wman by the name of 
"Todd" was ever a member of this group.

2.  The use of "speed" in the Circle is not condoned by our 
Church.

3.  The rituals used by the "Watchers Church" bear little or no 
resemblence to those of our Church.

4.  In careful cross-questioning, it was apparent that Todd had 
no knowledge of the methodology of the use of kundalini or dance 
in the raising of power.  Thus the sex acts that were apparently 
performed were purely for the gratification of the Todd's 
personal sexual perversities.

5.  The tradition used is eclectic and is based on a Dianic 
mythos.  Aradia is viewed by John Todd as a "fifteen-year-old 
bitch."  Cernunnos is added as Aradia's brother and an overseeing 
group of demi-god watchers is added.  This mythos is not 
acceptable to our Church; nor do we know of any other church to 
which it would be acceptable.

6.  The Todds have in the past claimed both to the media and to 
other pagans that they are "in control of the area."  They have 
no such right.

7.  The Todds claim to be "sixth-degree initiates."  This 
methodology is similar to the Satanist Church of the Process and 
is not acceptable to our Church.

8.  It is the stated intention of the Todds to open a public 
Church of Wicca and to start an occult newspaper.  It is our 
recommendation that neither of these projects be supported by 
Witches, because the Todds have neither the qualifications nor 
the knowledge necessary for such endeavors.

9.  In closing this report, I would like to thank specifically 
the various law-enforcement agencies, the Dayton area Witches, 
and Wes Hill (reporter for the Dayton Daily News) for their 
cooperation in a rather unpleasant task.

                                                      Gavin Frost
