                    The Mass of Choronzon, by Pete Carroll

An Invocation of the personal ego or false Holy Guardian Angel, for
the purpose of casting ones entire will as an Enchantment upon
reality. Such an operation would normally qualify as an extreme act
of black magic, were it not prefaced by an initial invocation of the
formless Kia or real Holy Guardian Angle. The essential purpose of
the conjuration as a whole is to increase the dominian of ones ego
over the world in the hope of bringing the formless life force of
the Kia more fully into play. The ritual is traditionally performed
with a wand to exemplify will, although other instruments can be
used, or improvisation made with the clenched fist if necessary.

The invocations are in the Enochian language and represent in part,
adaptions of the calls of the first and tenth Enochian Aethers, and
consist of eleven and thirty three words each.

Unlike the Mass of Chaos B (Baphomet Conjuration), this ritual
cannot be aimed to enchant for any specific desire and has the
property of tending to phenomenise the desires of the ego at random.
Herein lies its use and its danger. You may only realise what it was
you wanted when it arrives.

The ritual must therefore be considered as partly an act of
Divination. Following the statement of intent, the Kia is first
invoked by an incantation, a mantra and a brief period of complete
mental silence. It would be both blasphemous and catastrophic to
attempt to conceptualise Kia as other than a formless pregnant void.
The god/daemon form of Choronzon is manifested by a visulisation of
ones self in the form of ones grossly hypertrophied ego whilst the
incantation is given. The ritual is concluded with three
simultaneous acts. A lightening flash in the form of the solar sig
or sigil or sowulo victory rune is visualised flashing down from
ones head to the ground, a loud martial arts Kia is shouted and the
wand is struck against the ground. Laughter banishing then follows.


Mass of Choronzon:

1, Statement of Intent:
   LET MY TOTAL WILL BE DONE !
2, The Eight Rayed Star of Chaos is traced upoon the ground with the
   wand.
3, The Invocation to Kia is delivered, holding the wand aloft, with
   both hands, directly above the head.
   Incantation:

   ZIRDO       IADNAMAD            ELILA
   I am    the undefiled knowledge of the 1st aether

   MICALZODO   SAANIR              MADRIAAX
   mighty      in the parts of     the heavens

   FINIS       BALZIZIRAS          IADA
   executing   the judgement of    the highest

               IO KIA !

4, "I" mantra for one complete exhalation.  In PTAH posture, feet
                                            together, wand held with
5, Mental silence for a few moments.        both hands upright
                                            against body.
6, Choronzon Invocation: wand held crosswise above the head.
   Incantation:

   ANETAB        OTHIL         LUDSI           CAOSAGI
   in government I have set    my feet         in the earth

   ZIRDO         LONSMI        DEPEDE          ZARZAX
   I am          the power     333             of the 10th aether

   SOBA          DOOAIN        MAD             ZILODARPE
   whose name    amongst you   is              the god of conquest

   TOOAT         GMICALZOMA    LARSAD          TOLGLO
   furnishing    a power of    to dispose of   all things
                 understanding
   YRPOIL        LATOK         OVCHO           ASYMP
   division,     one thing     let it confound with another

   UNCHI         OMORS         ZODACARE        GOHUS
   confound      understanding move!           I say
                 with darkness
   OADRIAX       OROCHA        DODPAL          CAOSAGI
   the lower     beneath       let them vex    upon the earth
   heavens
   ABRAMAG       NETAAIB       CAOSAGI         IO CHORONZON !
   I prepare     for the       of the earth
                 government

7, Visualise Lightening Flash, Shout Kiai, Strike Wand to Ground.
8, Banish with Laughter.


