
File   : ABE-ANAN.TXT
Author : Wolfman
BBS    : The Banana Republic BBS


                          ------------------------
                          1863 a Gettysburg Banana
                          ------------------------ 

Fourscore and seven afternoon snacks ago our foreBananas brought forth on this
BBS a new Republic, conceived in Bananahood, and dedicated to the proposition
that all Bananas are created equal (under Barri).

Now we are engaged in a great war against Banana eaters and the Black 
Tarantulas testing whether that the Republic, or any lunch so conceived and so
well ripened, can long endure. We are met on a great battlefield of that war. 
We have come to dedicate a portion of this BBS as a final resting-place for 
those Bananas who here gave their skins so that others may live and do normal 
Banana things. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But,
in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate - we cannot consecrate - we cannot hallow
this BBS. The brave Bananas, living and eaten, who laid down their skins here
have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will
little note, nor long remember, what we say here, but it can never forget what
they did here. It is for us the uneaten rather, to be dedicated here to the
unfinished work which those Bananas who surrended the white mushy bits in the
centre here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here
dedicated to the great task remaining before us - that from these honoured
eaten we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave their last
full measure of fruitfulness - that we here highly resolve that these eaten
shall not have been eaten because there was nothing else in the friut basket -
that this Republic, under Barri, shall have a new birth of divine dictatorship
of the Bananas, by the Bananas, for the Bananas, shall not overripen and so
perish from the earth.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTHOR : Wolfman
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Brought to the WORLD by The Banana Republic BBS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
