This ritual of self-blessing has been around for many years -
originally published by the Pagan Way.  This version is taken from
Amber Wolfe's "In the Shadow of the Shaman" because it is not as
Goddess oriented.

This version can be used by anyone, regardless of
religious principle, because it is easily adapted with the name of
your own diety.  The important thing is that you are calling on your
highest spiritual force to witness your life/problems, and in calling
attention to yourself, you are begining to take charge and deal with
the problems.  There is a very real, very deep power in this ritual,
no matter how simply or elaborately it is performed, and it should
never be performed in fun or for show.  Use it whenever the need is
great - any moon phase is permissible, although it was originally
intended to be used at the waxing moon.  It will embue the celebrant
with a sense of calm connectedness and peace.

What follows is the text as Amber Wolfe has written it.  Balance and
blessings.    -=Satinka
=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=

Ritual of Self-Blessing

You will need

   a small votive candle and holder (white is always good, but use
      color if you feel called to do that)
   an incense stick, cone, or herbs (such as sage or thyme) to burn
   a small container of water
   a small container of salt

I find that a sugar and creamer set works very well for this. These
can be purchased quite reasonably and set aside just for this use.

This is a ritual which connects you to the deepest levels of healing.
It also connects you to the four elements and their energies. In this
way it is most helpful for dealing with the shamanic elemental
energies of Nature.

The candle represents the element of Fire
The incense or herbs represent Air
The container of water is Water
The container of salt is Earth.

Beyond that, these elements reflect your own needs.

The element of Fire reflects your relationships, protection, ideas and
achievements.

The element of Air reflects your creativity, spirituality, inspiration
and philosophies.

The element of Water reflects your emotions, intuition, dream states,
psychic gifts, and healing balance.

The element of Earth reflects your practicality, knowledge, sacred
wisdom, and growth.

Find a quiet time and place where you will not be disturbed. You may
make this as ceremonial or as informal as you choose.

Light the incense and take a few moments to consider the element of
Air.  Consider the gifts that Air reflects in you.

Light the candle and take a few moments to consider the element of
Fire. Consider the gifts that Fire reflects in you.

Take a few moments to consider the element of water and how it
reflects in you.

Take a few moments to consider the element of Earth and how it
reflects in you.

Very gently, pour the water into the container of salt. If you are
using herbs as an incense, you may sprinkle a few in the water and
salt mixture.

Stir the salt and water with your fingers. Consider the blending of
elements that creates life itself. Consider the balance of elements
and their attributes in your life. Take a few moments to do this.

Facing the candle, dip your fingers in the water mixture and touch
your forehead (3rd eye area).

Say: "Bless me Mother, for I am your child." (The original was
written for the Goddess as Mother.  Another diety name can be
substituted here, or simply say "Spirit.")

Now dip your fingers in the water mixture and touch the area around
your eyes carefully.

Say: "Bless my eyes that I may see you."

Dip again and touch your nose.

Say: "Bless my nose that I may breathe your essence."

Dip again and touch your ears.

Say: "Bless my ears that I may hear your wisdom."

Dip again and touch your mouth.

Say: "Bless my mouth that I may speak your name."

Dip again and touch your heart.

Say: "Bless my heart that I may feel your love."

Dip again and touch your lower abdomen.

Say: "Bless my cauldron center that I may create harmony."

Dip again and touch your feet.

Say: "Bless my feet that I may walk in balance."

Dip again and rub your hands together.

Say: "Bless my hands that I may share your healing in my work."

Take all the time you need to concentrate on the elements before you.
Focus your attention on the candle and visualize healing light flowing
into you.  Feel strength emerging from deep inside yourself. Breathe
deeply and capture that moment. Connect with the source of strength
and healing.

When you feel you are finished, blow out the candle.  I often save
these candles just for this ritual of self-blessing.  If I am
extremely pressed for time, I simply light the candle and take a few
moments to connect with the energy of the ritual.

It is good to leave the incense burning if you can. Air is a
communicating element, and smoke is transformation.  The incense
carries the messages of healing and strength to Spirit. If you have
used herbs, it is good to return the ashes to Nature. In this way, you
are grounding the energy, bringing the message and the transformation
to earth. Make sure the ashes are cold; then place them at the roots
of a tree or bush if possible.  If not, place them in soil or sand.

The salt and water mixture can be used very effectively in several
ways. You may wash your gemstones or other stones in this.  Crystals
love this, since their energy is so personally connected to yours.

You may save the mixture and dab a little on your third-eye area every
day for a few days, as a reminder. You may pour the mixture into your
bath for a gentle energizer. When the bathwater drains, visualize a
connection between yourself and the energies of Mother Ocean.  You may
return the mixture to earth by pouring it on soil or sand. Remember,
plants don't thrive in salt; so keep the mixture clear of plants. You
may sprinkle the mixture throughout your house to seal in positive
energies and protection.

                   =+=+=+=+=+=

