
   
     
PROGRESSIVE RELAXATION and SELF-HYPNOSIS     
     
Introduction:     
     
     I'm Dr. Len Bewersdorf, a psychotherapist and clinical     
hypnotist in private practice in the Chicago suburbs.  The     
purpose of this information is to:     
     
     1. provide you with directions and suggestions sufficient to
let you experience a feeling of physical relaxation and, if you  
wish, a period of self-induced hypnotic trance,     
     
     2. give you information about hypnosis that you may find    
encourages you to learn more about this natural, easy way to     
"tap" into more of your own personal resources, and     
     
     3. encourage you to give me feedback about your experiences 
when you used this guide.     
     
                     ----------------------        
                     
 
You don't need to do anything special...just sit where you are,  
with both feet on the floor.  If your chair has a headrest, so   
much the better -- it's not necessary, however.    
   
Most of us don't breathe...that is, we don't breathe in a way    
that promotes relaxation and tension reduction.  Since I've made 
you conscious of your breathing, you're probably making a liar   
out of me right now!  That's allright...just keep breathing    
deeply and slowly...if you physically push your stomach out a    
little as you breathe in...you'll find your breathing will be    
deeper and more relaxing....    
   
Now...you can continue breathing this way...slowly and    
deeply...without really needing to think about it...and as you   
do, you can pay attention to how tight or tense your shoulder and
upper back muscles are...and...just by thinking about them...you 
can let them soften and relax a little...and you'll notice that  
your breathing has continued just as before...and...as you let   
your shoulders relax...your arms will also feel more relaxed and 
you can also pay attention to your jaw...it may be clenched or   
tight...but you can just let this ease a bit so that it feels    
relaxed and loose...    
   
Soon...you may find more of your body relaxing and as it    
does...your eyelids may feel a little heavy as they relax    
too...so before you experience much more of that...read the bold 
print...then close your eyes and say it to yourself...then slowly
open your eyes and read the next directions etc.    
   
   
   
OK, read this, close your eyes, say it to yourself...then open   
them...    
   
I CAN CONTINUE BREATHING DEEPLY AND SLOWLY AS MY BODY RELAXES    
EVEN MORE....    
    
   
now....read this and then close your eyes and say it to    
yourself..    
   
AS I RELAX MORE WITH EACH BREATH I TAKE, MY BODY FEELS HEAVIER   
    
   
take your time...and do the same with this...    
   
SOON I MAY DECIDE TO CLOSE MY EYES FOR A FEW MINUTES, BUT NOT YET

  
   
and this...   
   
 I WILL KEEP MY EYES OPEN EVEN THOUGH THEY MAY FEEL HEAVY...    
    
   
and this,too...    
   
 WHEN I DO CLOSE THEM THE NEXT TIME...I CAN LEAVE THEM CLOSED AS 
LONG AS I WISH TO...    
    
   
When you finish reading this,    
breathe in and out deeply and slowly three times...              
   
Read the following...once...slowly...and think about what you're 
reading...when you've finished...close your eyes...or leave   
them open...   
    
   
I CAN SLOWLY LET THE REST OF MY BODY RELAX...AND AS I THINK ABOUT
ANY TIGHTNESS I MAY FEEL...JUST BY THINKING ABOUT IT...THAT PART 
OF ME CAN RELAX AND SOFTEN MORE...I'LL KNOW WHEN I'M FINISHED    
WITH THIS EXPERIENCE BECAUSE I'LL WANT TO GET UP AND MOVE AROUND 
A LITTLE...    
   
   
 
   
The above text is a natural and simple way to let yourself    
experience a feeling of relaxation and a daydream-like trance    
where you are fully aware of everything going on around you but  
for a while, just detach youself from what's going on around    
you...    
   
    
   
Please let me know if this brief excercise helped you feel more  
relaxed for a while...    
 
Leave a message for me at EXEC-PC BUSINESS BOARD 414/964-5160    
Leonard Bewersdorf (leave the Dr. off please)    
 






 















































