BOSTON, MA, February 11,1992 -- Emerson Computer Power has unveiled a new
full featured, on-line uninterruptible power supply (UPS) for use with
single file server LANs such as those based on 386 or 486 PCs. It is being
demonstrated at the Emerson booth (#1511) here at NetWorld.

"Rated at 750 VA, the AccuPower GOLD AU750 offers all the features of our
popular AU1000 and AU1500 in a size that's right for small file servers
that need continuous access to clean sinewave power protection," according
to Steve Workman, product manager. Priced at $1249, the AU760 is a
cost-effective choice for those users. It is immediately available.

The new AU750 can be used in either local or remote applications. If the
UPS is not adjacent to the system operators, status reports are available
on their monitors via the AU750's RS-232 serial communication port and
Emerson's new AccuMon Power Surveillance Software. This feature allows the
workstation operator to read input and output voltage, temperature,
battery load, battery capacity, etc, on a highly graphic screen, and it
permits data logging. It also reports when power has failed and the system
is running on battery.

The UPS is also equipped with audible and visual indicators to keep the
local operator constantly informed about the unit's status. For example,
one LED bar display reports percentage load and a second indicates
remaining battery capacity. A light on the front panel and an audible
alarm warn when the unit is operating on battery or when a fault condition
is present. A battery test can be conducted in place or remotely.

The AccuPower GOLD AU750 is designed with state of the art components that
improve efficiency and reliability while making the unit smaller, lighter,
quieter and more convenient than earlier on-line units. It includes a
power factor correction circuit to minimize the amount of noise the UPS
reflects back into the utility line and to let the UPS use utility power
more efficiently.

The 750 VA unit will support two IBM PS/2 Model 80s for more than 10
minutes. To minimize noise, its dual speed fan operates on low (less than
40 db) unless the UPS is fully loaded.

The AccuPower GOLD AU750 weighs only 36 pounds and is a compact 9-5/8 x 7 x
20-1/4 inches, giving it one of the smallest footprints in the industry.
It is equipped with four NEMA outlets on the rear for plugging in
computer, monitor and peripherals.

Emerson Computer Power is the world's largest manufacturer of power
protection systems for computing applications ranging from single user PCs
and local area networks to minicomputers and mainframe systems. The
company has major manufacturing centers in Ohio, California, Mexico,
England, Malaysia and Italy.

Emerson Computer Power, 9650 Jeronimo Road, Irvine, CA 92718
(800) BACK-UPS     (714) 457-3704

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
