BOSTON, Mass. -- (February 11,1992) -- Alpha Wire will be demonstrating its
newly introduced network management product line here at NETWORLD in Booth
#3915. Alpha's Network Management products provide users with an
integrated wiring system featuring cable, connectors and tools to support
Ethernet, Arcnet, Token Ring and AppleTalk networks.

Ethernet products feature unshielded twisted pair (UTP), transceiver and
"thick" and "thin" coaxial cables. Each cable type is supported by a
corresponding connector that provides the user with a method of
terminating or interconnecting each of these cables. Token Ring products
include Type 1, Type 2, Type 3, Type 6 and Type 9, available in plenum and
non-plenum versions. Other products include the IBM type data connector,
D-Subminiature connectors, modular plugs and jack, coax connectors and
wall plates. Arcnet products include UTP, RG-62 and the corresponding
connectors and tooling. Appletalk products include shielded and unshielded
twisted pair cables and the corresponding connectors and tooling.

The Network Management products meet or exceed industry standards such as
IEEE 802.3, 802.5 and EIA/TIA 568 to facilitate system installation,
reconfiguration and maintenance. All Alpha connectors are completely
compatible with recommended Alpha cables for total system reliability.

"Alpha has been working together with our core group of over 2,000
distributors to develop the appropriate products and marketing strategies
for these network management products. We are very pleased with the
outcome of this development and look forward to providing end users with
the quality wire products they expect from Alpha," said Grant McLennan,
president of Alpha Wire.

Alpha also offers a wide range of computer interconnect cables for RS 232
applications that fit most computer systems and process control equipment.
Some cables offer capacitance as low as 12.5 pF/ft.

As a leading supplier of wire, cable, tubing and accessories, Alpha Wire
Corporation has been serving customers for more than 60 years. For
additional information on network management or other Alpha products, call
1-800-52ALPHA.

Alpha Wire Corp
711 Lidgerwood Ave, PO Box 711, Elizabeth, NJ 07207-0711
908-925-8000

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
