CUPERTINO, Calif. -- January 13,1992 -- Symantec Corporation (NASDAQ:SYMC)
today announced The Norton AntiVirus version 2.0 for DOS and Windows. It
finds and repairs over 1,000 viruses and strains, and detects unknown
viruses. The Norton AntiVirus offers fast scanning speed, provides
automatic protection in the background and uses a scanner that requires as
little as lK RAM. It includes complete Windows operation, recursive scan
and repair, and configurable protection options.

The Norton AntiVirus offers unmatched virus update protection, including
easy user addition of new virus definitions. Corporate-wide virus defense
features allow standardized virus safeguards for an entire company. The
Norton AntiVirus provides more complete network server support than any
other virus protection program.

"With the number of viruses growing at a rate of about 20 per week, timely
virus definition updates become a critical factor," said Rod Turner,
executive vice-president of Symantec's Peter Norton Group. "Symantec's
comprehensive virus update services provide the fast turnaround that users
need."

Key Features 
============
Full Windows Operation 

The Norton AntiVirus version 2.0 includes virus defense for both DOS and
Windows. Pop-up Virus Alert dialogue boxes provide comprehensive,
multi-tasking protection under Windows. Windows Scan Clinic lets users
scan for viruses, repair or remove infected files, add new virus
definitions and set configuration options.

Automatic Protection 

Whether in DOS or Windows, The Norton AntiVirus provides automatic,
transparent and continuous protection in the background without
interfering with the user's daily work. This allows even novice users to
have full protection against virus infections. It constantly monitors file
activity and alerts the user only when a virus is detected.

Network Protection 

The Norton AntiVirus offers the broadest range of network virus protection
found in a single product. It intercepts infected files that attempt to
launch on a network drive, it offers complete unattended scanning and DOS
error level reporting. It is network compatible with Novell NetWare 286 &
386, 3COM 3+0pen, OS/2 LAN Manager, Banyan Vines and AT&T Starlan.

Immediate Virus Update Protection 

Continuous new virus updates are available through Symantec's Virus
Newsline (408/252-3993), Symantec's 24-hour Virus Faxline (310/575-5018),
Symantec BBS (408/973-9598 or 9834) and Compuserve. A new Virus Definition
Disk Service is also available for $12 plus tax. Norton AntiVirus
customers can obtain the update disk by calling (800) 343-4714, ext. 756.

User addition of new virus definitions is easily done with a single menu
selection. The Norton AntiVirus lists the viruses it protects against and
automatically updates the list as more definitions are added.

Comprehensive Virus Defense 

The Norton AntiVirus detects unknown viruses by tracking unusual virus like
behavior. An encrypted fingerprinting file provides additional security
against unknown viruses. Intelligent virus fingerprinting detects changes
to files caused by viruses, even when the file size does not change.

A file may be infected with more than one virus; some viruses can infect a
file many times. With The Norton AntiVirus' new recursive scanning, a user
scans the file once and the product keeps removing viruses until the file
is clean. The Norton AntiVirus provides configurable protection options
which give the user speed, security and memory size choices for optimum
performance.

At installation, The Norton AntiVirus stores vital system information on a
Rescue Disk (either on floppy or network drives). If a virus destroys this
important information (CMOS, Boot Record, partition tables) the user's
system can be recovered using the Rescue Disk.

Corporate Virus Defense 

MIS/PC coordinators can utilize the flexibility of The Norton AntiVirus to
establish company-wide virus safeguards. The Norton AntiVirus includes a
wide array of command line options for highly automated operation on both
standalone and networked PCs. Customizable virus alert messages give
organizations the ability to implement their own virus response
instructions. Password protection restricts access to program
configuration options, ensuring consistent protection. The Norton
AntiVirus also provides audit trails to track all virus-related activity.

Pricing and Availability 

The Norton AntiVirus version 2.0 for DOS and Windows is available at a
suggested retail price of $129. Upgrades to registered customers are
available for $29. It runs on IBM PC, XT, AT, PS/2 and 100% compatibles,
and requires DOS 3.1 or higher with 384K RAM. The Norton AntiVirus is
compatible with Windows 3.0.

Symantec Corporation develops, markets and supports a complete line of
application and system software products for IBM personal computers and
compatibles, and Apple Macintosh computers.

Founded in 1982, the company has offices in the United States, Canada,
Australia and Europe. Information on the company and its products can be
obtained by calling (800) 441-7234 toll free, or (408) 252-3570.

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
