(GAINESVILLE, FL -- February 11, 1992) Barr Systems announced that its SNA
RJE and 3270 gateways now support access from workstations with
asynchronous modems. The feature allows laptops, notebook computers, and
other PCs with inexpensive, internal, asynchronous modems to gain dial-up
access to mainframes.

Asynchronous access to the BARR/GATE gateway is provided by the four PC COM
ports, and up to four of Barr's new 8-port ASYNC8 adapter boards, for a
total of up to 36 ports. Using COM1 through COM4 with internal
asynchronous modems provides a very clean and inexpensive solution. This
configuration can support a large number of occasional dial-up users. The
same gateway can also simultaneously support up to 254 total users on a
LAN using NetBlOS, Novell IPX/SPX, or 802.2 Token Ring protocols.

The ASYNC option supports the IBM-standard Asynchronous Data Link Control
(ADLC) protocol, which provides access to the IBM Information Network, and
allows the gateway to support both IBM and Attachmate 3270 asynchronous
workstations. All of the advantages of the SNA architecture are provided,
including error detection and correction, multiple sessions, IND$FILE
transfer, HLLAPI support, and even optional RJE.

Asynchronous modems supporting the V.42 bis compression standard can
provide dial-up access at up to 38.4 kbps. This is much faster than
existing synchronous dial-up solutions. Barr Systems products also support
full duplex communications. This improves performance even during one-way
transfers because the required acknowledgements are sent simultaneously.

The ASYNC option to BARR/GATE sells for $690, and supports up to four ports
using internal PC hardware. Up to four ASYNC8 eight-port adapters may be
added to the gateway for $1,290 each. Remote workstations require Barr's
3270/ASYNC, with a list price of $200 per workstation, or compatible
software.

Barr Systems, Inc. offers a complete line of PC-based host connectivity
products, supporting high-volume printing and file transfer via RJE and
3270 protocols.

--------------------------------------------------------

(GAINESVILLE, FL -- February 11, 1992) Barr Systems announced that its
remote mainframe communications products now support host connection using
the Qualified Logical Link Control (QLLC) protocol to send SNA over X.25
networks. The X.25 link can greatly reduce access costs by eliminating
long-distance telephone charges.

Support for X.25 attachment has been added to the existing BARR/SNA RJE,
RJE+3270, BARR/GATE, and BARR/3270 products. These were previously
available with SNA/SDLC, Token Ring, and coaxial (DFT and 3299)
connections. The X.25/QLLC connection operates over Barr's existing
RS-232, V.35, and X.21 adapters, or with Barr's PC-SYNC internal
synchronous modems. There is no additional charge for the X.25/QLLC
software.

President Tony Barr notes, "We intend to support the full spectrum of IBM
connectivity. The X.25 option is an excellent choice for any RJE or 3270
environment where the per-packet charges would be lower than long-distance
or dedicated line fees." In the Barr Systems implementation, packet costs
have been minimized by eliminating all unnecessary SNA frames, and by
automatically adjusting packet and window sizes to reduce segmentation of
messages.

The X.25 connection to the host is via the NCP Packet Switching Interface
(NPSI), supported by IBM. Barr's SDLC and X.25 communications options
support line speeds of up to 384 kbps. In addition, they support
full-duplex (DATMODE=FULL) operation, which can nearly double the
throughput provided by competing products.

Barr Systems, Inc. offers a complete line of PC-based host connectivity
products, supporting high-volume printing and file transfer via RJE and
3270 protocols.

BARR Systems Inc, 4131 NW 23 Lane, Gainesville, FL 32606
904-371-3050; 800-BARR-SYS; fax 904-371-3018

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
