BOSTON, NETWORLD -- February ll, 1992 -- Frye Computer Systems, Inc.,
publisher of the award winning Frye Utilities for Networks, releases LAN
Directory, the most powerful automatic hardware and software inventory
program on the market. LAN Directory features a complete custom report
writer, more information than any similar product, as well as integration
with other Frye products under the Frye Utilities Management Platform.

LAN Directory allows computer managers to track all of their PC's and
MAC's, including stand-alone machines, file servers, printers, external
disk drives, modems, software, and more. It provides managers with
extensive details about the products installed on their networks and their
configurations. A database is maintained that can be set for automatic or
manual operation in updating LAN configurations, DOS versions, system
configurations, user names, etc. LAN Directory can also be used to
troubleshoot problems such as those caused by old or error-prone versions
of hardware or software. Just run a change report or a version comparison
report. In addition, it can be used for upgrade management, downtime
reporting, maintenance, automated inventory reporting, etc. (more)

LAN Directory is the latest of a set of integrated products from Frye for
Novell NetWare users. These products give network managers complete
control of their PC LAN's from a central management workstation. Frye will
release more of these products during the coming months as part of its
commitment to a high quality network environment.

Inventories Hardware And Software 

LAN workstations and file servers are automatically audited for hundreds of
hardware and software elements. External devices can be inventoried
manually. Standalone PCs can be inventoried automatically by running the
software at each machine.

Catalogs Hundreds of Items Per PC 

LAN Directory gathers almost every detail possible for workstations and
file servers. Nobody else has this level of detail, especially for NetWare
3.1 + servers. LAN Directory even stores text start-up files such as
AUTOEXEC.BAT and CONFIG.SYS. If the information needed is not stored
automatically, it can be added manually.

Powerful Custom Reporting 

Customized reports can be created using any number of items. Reports are
also included that can be modified. Use multiple headers and footers. Move
text around the screen and place titles and data areas anywhere to create
wide, narrow or custom width reports.

Automatic Operation 

LAN workstation data is gathered automatically at each log-in. No TSRs are
required.

Support for Novell's NetWare Management System (NMS) 

Frye Computer Systems is participating with Novell in the development of
advanced network management products for the new NetWare Management System
platform. Frye is committed to integrating LAN Directory and other
products into the new platform.

The Frye Utilities for Networks - LAN Directory will be available during
the week of NetWorld and is priced at $495.

--------------------------------------------------------

BOSTON -- February 3, 1992 -- Frye Computer Systems, Inc., publisher of the
award winning Frye Utilities for Networks, is participating with Novell in
the development of advanced network management products for the new
NetWare Management System platform which is being announced today by
Novell, Inc. As a Gold level Novell Developer (Novell's highest category),
Frye has been provided with NMS information for over a year.

"Frye Computer Systems is proud to be participating with Novell in the
development of advanced network management products for the new NetWare
Management System platform," said Russell H. Frye, President of Frye
Computer Systems, Inc. "We believe that the combination of the expertise
demonstrated in the Frye Utilities along with the support provided by
Novell's new system will produce a powerful partnership."

IS NOVELL COMPETING WITH ITS OWN 3RD PARTY DEVELOPERS?

Frye has been repeatedly asked if it considers Novell to be a competitor in
the network management market and would like to take this opportunity to
set the record straight. "During discussions of the $5,000 NMS platform
and other management software projects, Novell has promised, time and time
again, that it will not compete with Frye and similar developers." Mr.
Frye continues to explain that "Novell has assured us that they will only
provide a platform for development and a few specific applications that
are not available from 3rd parties. They have said that they have no
intention of copying existing products and features to provide similar
products or features to those of their 3rd party developers."

Novell has always sought to work in close cooperation with its 3rd party
developers. Historically, it has benefitted enormously from the support
provided by outside software and hardware firms that have made NetWare the
most flexible network operating system in the industry. Due to its open
architecture and generous support for developers, end-users can take
advantage of a myriad of options to satisfy their network needs. Novell
appears to wish to maintain its successful heritage.

FRYE AND NMS

Frye plans to release many of its functions in ports to the NMS platform,
in both Microsoft Windows and IBM OS/2 form. Novell has provided
developers with hooks for many sets of data that can be used by their
applications. Frye can supply its industry leading notification and
response options (from the NetWare Early Warning System) for monitoring
purposes, as well as its extensive workstation and file server support
software (from NetWare Management and LAN Directory.) Look for several
major announcements in coordination with Novell during the coming months.

FRYE'S CURRENT PRODUCTS AND AVAILABILITY

Frye Computer Systems current suite of products includes The Frye Utilities
for Networks - NetWare Management, NetWare Early Warning System and LAN
Directory. NetWare Management is a management utility for Novell NetWare
286 and 386 which includes extensive graphic and reporting functions as
well as providing for Disaster Recovery support, Enhanced Troubleshooting
and Diagnostics. NetWare Early Warning System Monitors over 50 NetWare 286
& 386 critical statistics, Notifies by pager, electronic mail, voice and
more and Fixes or Responds to events, automatically. These two products
are available now at a retail price of $495. Frye's newest product, LAN
Directory, allows computer managers to track all of their PC's and MAC's.
LAN workstations and file servers as well as stand alone workstations are
automatically audited for hundreds of hardware and software elements. LAN
Directory will available during the week of NetWorld Boston (Feb. 11-13)
at a retail price of $495.

Frye Computer Systems Inc, 19 Temple Place, Boston, MA 02111
617-247-2300

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
