(Phoenix, Arizona, February 11, 1992)--Computing in the nineties is
changing fast. With more and more organizations increasing their reliance
on Local Area Networks (LANs), the expanding popularity of notebook and
laptop computers, and the growing trend toward telecommuting, effective
computing no longer just means a PC on your desk in the office.

LANs are taking over the way businesses compute. Studies indicate that
56.8% of all PCs in use will be connected to a LAN by 1995. International
Data Corporation (IDC) predicts the demand for LAN-based dial out will
increase as the number of PCs on LANs worldwide increases.

In addition IDC states that, "the number of portable PCs (including
notebooks, laptops, and transportables) shipping worldwide will increase
from 3.9 million in 1991 to 9.6 million in 1995." With this growth in the
portable PC market comes an increasing need for remote access to the LAN.

Market research firm, Link Resources, says 4.3 million company employees
work at home now. That figure is expected to increase as companies
continue to find that higher productivity and employee satisfaction are
the positive results of their telecommuting policies.

In response to all of these trends and growing user concern with the
complexity of LAN-to-WAN connectivity, LANMODEM provides a simple
solution. LANMODEM is a V.32bis/ V.42bis (14.4K baud modem with up to 4x
data compression) network-attachable modem, which operates at speeds up to
57.6K baud.

It is an intelligent plug-and-play network modem designed to give users
high speed access to, from and between Novell LANs. LANMODEM provides a
direct connection to the LAN cabling, giving remote users the ability to
log in to their office network from home, their hotel room, or wherever
they may be. LANMODEM lets them run applications such as E-mail,
groupware, word processing programs, graphics packages, etc., exactly as
if they were attached directly to the network. Additionally, remote users
can transfer files, print documents or..take remote control of a network
PC.

As the popularity of telecommuting increases, so does the need for
realistic tools which permit employees to work efficiently and
effectively, believes David Bolles, company founder and CEO, who designed
LANMODEM with telecommuting in mind. "I think technology has a
responsibility to attempt to solve some of our environmental problems.
More and more, companies are willing to work with their employees to
permit them to work out of their home. LANMODEM is their easy-to-use
dial-in solution. Additionally it solves a need for employees traveling on
business to access their office networks."

LANMODEM attaches directly to the network and allows network users in the
office to share modems to dial out to electronic information services. In
addition, LANMODEM features an additional serial port permitting another
modem to be attached, giving multiple users the ability to dial in and out
simultaneously, avoiding the need for dedicated modems and extra
telecommunications lines.

LANMODEM, ($1,995 Ethernet Version), was announced late in 1991, and is
currently in final beta testing. It will ship in March.

Microtest Inc. designs, manufactures and markets innovative solutions for
users of computer networks, pioneering several firsts in both network
diagnostic and connectivity products. Since the introduction of Cable
Scanner, the first hand-held cable testing tool, in 1988, Microtest's
products have captured national recognition in the industry, including
winning several "Product of the Year" awards. The LANPORT connectivity
product line of dedicated applications servers, introduced in 1989, gave
network users the ability for the first time to share printers and modems
without a dedicated computer.

Microtest, 3519 East Shea Blvd, Suite 134, Phoenix, AZ 85028
602-971-6464

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
