ATLANTA, GA, 20 January 1992 -- Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. today
announced immediate availability of Smartmodem OPTIMA 2400 (OPTIMA 24), a
cost effective solution for business and personal communications that
provides CCITT V.42 error-control and V.42 bis data compression for data
throughput up to 9600 bps. Hayes also lowered the price of Smartmodem
OPTIMA 9600 (OPTIMA 96), a CCITT V.32 modem, by approximately 20 percent.

OPTIMA 24 supports CCITT V.22 bis (2400 bps), CCITT V.22 (1200 bps), as
well as industry standards 103 (300 bps) and 212A (1200 bps). OPTIMA 24
communicates asynchronously and synchronously, as well as supports Hayes
AutoSync, a standard Smartmodem feature that allows the modem to
communicate both asynchronously and synchronously, without using an SDLC
card.

While Hayes does not publish an estimated retail price for OPTIMA products,
both OPTIMA 24 and OPTIMA 96 are available to the distribution channel at
an aggressive price that encourages a market price well below that of
competitive products. The current advertised price range of OPTIMA 24 is
$149 to $199, while the current advertised price range of OPTIMA 96 is
$349 to $429. Prices may vary based on the level of value-added service a
reseller provides to their customers.

"At Hayes, we believe we should be our own best competitor. With OPTIMA 24,
we reinforce our commitment to providing the latest technology to all
sectors of the communications market," said Hayes President Dennis C.
Hayes. "If you liked the price of OPTIMA 96 in 1991, you'll love the price
of both OPTIMA 96 and OPTIMA 24 in 1992. OPTIMA 24 offers a perfect
migration for companies that have standardized on Smartmodem 2400 and now
want data compression and error-control."

OPTIMA 24 and OPTIMA 96 come bundled with Smartcom EZ communications
software and a special $35 upgrade offer for Smartcom Exec as well as
valuable information services coupons.

Smartcom EZ is a simple-to-use communications software program that enables
users to access PCs and on-line or BBS services. Smartcom EZ provides
easy-to-follow menus and phone book entries to store frequently called
numbers, keyboard macros, extensive on-line help screens and Autotype,
which enables users to transfer text files effortlessly. Furthermore, the
XMODEM protocol allows users to send or receive data files error-free
between locations.

Both OPTIMA 24 and OPTIMA 96 are available in the U.S. and Canada, and
carry a two year limited performance warranty. While OPTIMA 96 is
currently available throughout Latin America, Hayes anticipates the
approval and availability of OPTIMA 24 in Latin America over the next few
months.

Best known as the leader in microcomputer modems, Hayes develops, supplies
and supports computer communications equipment and software for personal
computer and computer communications networks. The company distributes its
products through an international network of authorized distributors,
dealers, mass merchants and original equipment manufacturers.

Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc
PO Box 105203, Atlanta, GA 30348
404-441-1617

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
