Santa Monica, CA, February 5, 1992 -- Retix, a leading worldwide supplier
of Open Networking products, today expanded its OpenServer 400 series of
X.400 based messaging solutions with a new version of OpenServer 400 and
two additional gateway Products. The company has added an OS/2 version to
its current line of popular OpenServer 400 products which includes
versions for DOS and UNIX (both SCO and Interactive versions). In
addition, Retix has introduced a new Microsoft Mail for PC Networks
Gateway to X400 and a new version of the SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer
Protocol) Gateway to X.400, expanding its current suite of gateway
products. Now, users in each of the major operating system environments,
using virtually any e-mail system, can benefit from OpenServer 400's
messaging solution.

The OpenServer 400 Product Family

Retix OpenServer 400 products allow users to link otherwise incompatible
mail systems to one another, creating a cohesive, enterprise-wide
messaging environment. All OpenServer 400 products provide a distributed
solution based on widely-accepted industry and ISO international
standards. In addition, OpenServer 400 products can be combined with an
extensive suite of gateways from Retix and other vendors to gain access to
virtually every popular e-mail and mail-enabled application in use today.
OpenServer 400 for OS/2

OpenServer 400 for OS/2 is designed to take full advantage of the
multi-tasking OS/2 Version 1.3 operating system, providing users with
improved performance and increased capacity for their enterprise-wide
messaging networks. Key benefits of the OS/2 version include: better
memory utilization and increased performance for more efficient service to
large numbers of users; the ability to run OpenServer 400 and selected
e-mail server applications on a single machine; and a graphical OpenServer
Configuration Utility (OCU) running under Presentation Manager that
simplifies configuration and set-up.

"Now that we have a version of OpenServer 400 for OS/2, as well as DOS and
UNIX, we can address the full spectrum of users that need to establish
enterprise-wide messaging," said Mark Fishburn, vice president and general
manager of Retix' OSI Product Unit.

New Gateway Products

Retix also expanded its family of gateways which work in conjunction with
OpenServer 400 to give users of PC LAN-based e-mail systems
interoperability with a wide range of other e-mail systems, mainframe and
minicomputer based systems and public mail networks that support X.400.

The new Microsoft (MS) Mail for PC Networks Gateway provides MS
Mail-to-X.400 format conversion and transmission, allowing users of MS
Mail for PC Networks (formerly Consumer Software's Network Courier e-mail
package) to send messages and receive messages from users of other e-mail
systems. In fact, to the MS Mail user, users of other email systems appear
as if they were using the same mail system; the gateway simply maps the MS
Mail address to the X.400 address transparently.

The Retix SMTP Gateway to X.400 works in a similar fashion, providing
SMTP-to-X.400 format conversion and transmission facilities, so that users
of UNIX e-mail systems (RFC 822 mailers) obtain access to other e-mail
systems and mail networks. Using the SMTP Gateway in combination with
OpenServer 400, users can send messages or files throughout an enterprise
using any e-mail package that supports RFC 822. The new version of the
gateway announced today adds support for SCO UNIX (to the previously
supported Interactive version), as well as MMDF-II, a popular SCO UNIX
mailer.

"Microsoft has a significant market share in the LAN-based e-mail world
with MS Mail for PC Networks, and UNIX mailers are used heavily in both
government and academic sectors," said James Neiser, associate vice
president of marketing for the Retix OSI Product Unit. "In conjunction
with our OpenServer Partners, we can now provide X.400-based
interoperability to e-mail users in virtually every market sector."

The MS Mail for PC Networks and SMTP Gateways to X.400 join the growing
number of gateways supplied by Retix and its OpenServer Partners to
provide access to popular e-mail and mail-enabled applications. Additional
gateways to X.400 are currently available for users of 3Com, cc:Mail,
NetWare MHS, OfficeWorks, MS Mail for Macintosh and WordPerfect, among
others.

Pricing and Availability

OpenServer for OS/2 is available 60 days ARO and begins at $5,950, U.S.
list. The Microsoft Mail for PC Networks Gateway to X.400 and the new
version of the SMTP Gateway to X.400 are available 60 days ARO. Pricing
for both gateways begins at $1,795, U.S. list. The products will be
demonstrated, along with OpenServer 400, at Networld Boston, February
11-13,1992 in Boston, Massachusetts, booth 121.

Retix is a leading worldwide supplier of Open Networking products to the
end user and OEM markets. Founded in 1985, Retix designs, manufactures and
markets both OSI software and internetworking bridges and routers to end
users, OEMs, systems integrators, value-added resellers and distributors.
Retix has more than 200 OSI OEM licensees throughout the world and has
sold over 25,000 bridges and routers. Retix' shares are traded on the
NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol "RETX".

Retix, 2401 Colorado Ave, Santa Monica, CA 90404
310-828-3400

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
