Retail prices on SMC's most popular 8- and 16-bit Ethernet network
interface cards have been reduced 20 to 35 per cent according to an
announcement made today by the company. At the same time, SMC introduced
both new and enhanced Elite Series Ethernet adapter cards featuring
increased performance, reduced size and easier installation. The new
boards expand the SMC EtherCard PLUS Elite adapter card line.

The significant price reductions on SMC Ethernet cards became effective
February 1,1992. According to Geof Karlin, SMC vice president of
marketing, the price drops reflect a major benefit of SMC's ability to
manufacture its own Ethernet chipset and bus interface LSI. "Our control
of silicon integration allows us to pass along manufacturing cost
advantages to our customers. This new, low pricing reflects SMC's
commitment to remain the Ethernet price/performance leader."

The five new EliteSeries boards from SMC consist of an 8-bit 10BASE-T; two
16-bit Micro Channel cards -- one 10BASE-T and one coax; and two
high-performance EISA adapters that feature two direct interfaces to
twisted pair or thin coax wiring via on-board transceivers, and offer an
alternative connection to a variety of media through an AUI port. The
three enhanced EliteSeries boards are all 16-bit adapters -- one 10BASE-T,
one coax and a combination 10BASE-T/coax version.

The new and upgraded boards all feature higher levels of silicon
integration for both increased reliability and ease of installation, and
are 20% smaller than the previous generation boards they replace.

"With the introduction of these new boards, we extend our line of Elite
board offerings," said Karlin. "Further integration of our LSI and
elimination of jumpers have allowed us to reduce space requirements on the
boards while increasing their reliability and making them easy to
configure. We expect these new cards to be as popular as the rest of the
EliteSeries line."

SMC EtherCard PLUS Elite boards are well-known for their outstanding
performance and quality, and easy installation via two preconfigured
jumper settings, or SMC's EZSETUP software configuration program. They
offer the broadest driver support in the LAN industry through SMC's
SuperDisk and third-party vendors.

SMC is making its new EtherCard PLUS Elite boards available in convenient,
easy-to-carry 6-packs with even more economical per-board retail prices -
some as low as $165. This is equivalent to buying five boards, and getting
the sixth free. Elite 6-packs will begin shipping in February, according
to the company.

SMC (NASD:SMSC) is one of the world's largest suppliers of PC LAN system
products. The company is a major designer, manufacturer and marketer of
10BASE-T/twisted pair, coax and fiber network interface cards,
concentrators and network management products for the Ethernet and ARCNET
markets. SMC currently has a worldwide installed base of over 3.5 million
nodes.
--------------------------------------------------------
After announcing major retail price reductions on its Ethernet adapter
cards, SMC said that five of its most popular boards will be available in
6-packs at even lower prices beginning this month.

SMC's 8-bit and 16-bit 10BASE-T and coax, as well as their 16-bit
combination boards, are all available in the new packaging at a per-board
price that is 20% off list, according to the company. All the boards are
part of the SMC EliteSeries family of Ethernet adapter cards.

"Resellers want to buy in volume whenever possible, so we're offering Elite
Ethernet boards in a package that meets that need," said Kristine Stewart,
SMC's director of channel marketing.

The new boxes, complete with carrying handle, began shipping to
distributors this month. Stewart said SMC is alerting the reseller
community about the new packaging through what the company calls the Elite
Treat direct mail campaign which features one of the 6-packs filled with
gourmet popcorn and promotional materials. 

"We shipped over 16,000 of these Elite Treat boxes worldwide. It's
certainly the best tasting direct mail campaign we've ever had, and should
attract quite a bit of attention," said Stewart.
--------------------------------------------------------
For more information about SMC or the name of their nearest reseller,
contact SMC at 80 Arkay Drive, Hauppauge, NY 11788;1-800-SMC4-YOU in the
U.S., 1-800-8334-SMC in Canada, or (516) 273-3100, ext. 5317 elsewhere.

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
