OREM, Utah--February 21, 1992 SoftSolutions Technology Corporation (STC)
announced today the latest release of their document management software
-- SoftSolutions for DOS, version 3.0. SoftSolutions 3.0 has been enhanced
to provide an all-encompassing approach to document management. Version
3.0 undertakes the management of all enterprisewide documents, regardless
of their source of creation.

SoftSolutions organizes documents originating from multiple sources (i.e.,
PC LANs, UNIX systems, documents stored on Laptops or Notebooks, hardcopy
documents, and documents created from the use of SoftSolution's Portable
Mode when the network is down), and creates a comprehensive depository of
accessible information.

Version 3.0 makes information readily available by providing a balance of
features that meet both the needs of end users and system administrators.
The following enhancements benefit both end users and administrators:
Portable Mode operations, equipped with fully-functioning Profiles and
searching features; completely customizable profile screens; activity
logs; personal worklists; simple management of compound documents;
extensive integration and "launch" facilities for other network
applications; improved document security; and, customizable menu options,
error messages, and help screens.

Alvin Tedjamulia, Vice President of STC, explains that "SoftSolutions is
the only company currently offering Portable Mode operations, which solves
significant problems encountered by organizations managing documents
created by busy users." SoftSolutions can easily coordinate the fragmented
flow of information generated by executives who may have created documents
on their home PC, on a laptop while traveling, or in another office. A
dataset, for example, in one office may welcome "guest documents" from a
dataset of another office. SoftSolutions 3.0 manages the entire process,
including status tracking, mass checkin/check-out, and moving documents
and Profiles. Welcoming guest documents or inviting them back to their
home dataset is efficiently coordinated in SoftSolutions 3.0 with a single
request.

SoftSolutions 3.0 beta users agree that some of the most impressive aspects
of version 3.0 is the comprehensive offering of features and the product
configurability/flexibility. "Users have given valuable input on the
enhancements of SoftSolutions 3.0 and the resulting cooperative effort
with current users has paid off in the most impressive product we have yet
delivered....SoftSolutions 3.0," said Kenneth W. Duncan, President of
STC.

SoftSolutions 3.0 fully supports SoftSolutions Image Manager and
SoftSolutions Intelligent Search. SoftSolutions for Windows will have the
same functionality as the DOS version and will be available second quarter
of 1992.

Memory requirements for SoftSolutions 3.0 are 640 Kb on the PC. A Server
Enhancement Module (SEM) providing true client/server computing, exists
for NetWare 3.1x, IBM AIX, Digital Ultrix, Data General UX, SUN/OS, SCO
UNIX, and Interactive UNIX.

SoftSolutions 3.0 will ship the end of February. SoftSolutions 3.0 sells
for $495.00 per File Server, $295.00 per additional station, and $1,995.00
for the Server Enhancement Module.

SoftSolutions Technology Corp
ParkView Plaza, 625 South State St, Orem, UT 84058
801-226-6000

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
