BOSTON, Mass. (February 11,1992) -- Tallgrass Technologies Corporation
today announced FileSECURE EnterpriZ, storage management software for
backing up DOS and NetWare with expanded networking capabilities.

FileSECURE EnterpriZ was designed to serve the storage management needs of
a distributed network. It offers the ability to backup and restore entire
networks including both fileserver and workstation data. EnterpriZ
includes peer-to-peer capabilities allowing the application to access data
on all local workstations. EnterpriZ is fully network aware, automatically
configuring itself to the network operating system in use. It concurrently
supports multiple network operating systems and multiple tape devices on
the network. EnterpriZ also fully supports backup on Banyan servers
including the STREET TALK database.

Features

FileSECURE EnterpriZ offers Quick File Access, context-sensitive on-line
help, and auto-login security. Data may be restored to any server or
workstation allowing for productivity even after a major server crash.
EnterpriZ supports cascading backups to multiple daisy-chained devices in
one backup operation.

"FileSECURE EnterpriZ ex(ends the functionality of workstation-based backup
by including automatic support for multiple operating systems and multiple
tape devices. This level of support preserves the uses storage investments
and provides a solution that can grow with the requirements of the
network," stated Ernest H. Wassmann, President and CEO of Tallgrass.

Compatibility

Hardware platform compatibility for FileSECURE EnterpriZ includes ISA and
MCA bus computers and supports operation in EISA. EnterpriZ supports the
following network operating systems: NetWare, LANtastic, 10NET, PC LAN,
POWERLan, and a host of other NetBIOS and SMB based LANs. Banyan VINES
support will also be available as an option in the second quarter of
1992.

Pricing

Suggested retail pricing for FileSECURE EnterpriZ is $795 . EnterpriZ with
the Banyan VINES option retails for $1,995. The product is packaged
complete with both 5.25" and 3.5" diskettes.

Tallgrass Technologies is a leading supplier of storage management
solutions. Established in 1981, Tallgrass supports an installed base in
excess of 250,000 units worldwide. Celebrating over a decade in business
as Architects of Storage Management, Tallgrass is represented in
twenty-two countries around the globe.

Tallgrass' series of tape backup systems provide a full range of storage
management solutions enabling Tallgrass to be a single-source provider of
tape backup systems to its distributor partners.

--------------------------------------------------------

LENEXA, Kansas (January 9, 1992) -- Tallgrass Technologies Corporation
today announced shipment of its enhanced version of NetSECURE,
server-based NLM network backup solution.

About the Product

NetSECURE was designed to integrate directly into the NetWare operating
system to provide maximum performance, flexibility, and a high level of
security for the user. Centralized backup allows servers and workstations
to be accessed in both attended and unattended modes. NetSECURE takes full
advantage of the NetWare Loadable Module (NIM) capabilities to maximize
tape speed for both backup and restore. NetSECURE 4.0 supports Tallgrass'
entire line of SCSI-based storage systems, with capacities ranging from
250 MB to 2 GB.

New features of NetSECURE 4.0 include:

ù Auto Pilot - A feature set that includes the following:

   ù tape rotation maintains daily, weekly, monthly and
     yearly tapes, producing a complete system backup
     history.

   ù disk grooming removes files not accessed during 
     a specified period of time and generates a specified
     number of copies in permanent storage.

   ù Quick Recover Restore allows full or partial recovery
     automatically at any specified time.

ù Directory Mirroring - allows configuration to trim the directory of the
destination disk to match the source disk file structure. Files or
subdirectories found in the destination directory which do not appear in
the source directory can be deleted from the destination.

ù Tape Usage Database - tracks the amount of tape usage for each individual
cartridge. A log provides information on when the tape should be replaced
or when the drive should be serviced.

ù Archive Bit Backup - allows backup or archive operations to be performed
based on the status of the file's archive bit.

ù Daisy Chaining - allows for the cascading of backup operations across
multiple drives.

"NetSECURE was designed to complement the Tallgrass line of high capacity,
high speed SCSI storage solutions. It fits in with our goal of
architecting solutions that are specific to the users' needs and wants,"
stated Ernest Wassmann, President and CEO of Tallgrass.

Compatibility

Hardware platform compatibility for NetSECURE 4.0 includes ISA and MCA bus
computers and supports operation in EISA.

Configuration

The NetSECURE application is available as an NLM for NetWare version 3.X
and will be available as a VAP for NetWare version 2.X in January 1992.
NetSECURE is packaged in stratified configurations and is available in NLM
packages in increments of 10-20 users, and 250 users. VAP packages will be
available in increments of 5,10 and unlimited users.

Pricing

Suggested retail pricing for NetSECURE 4.0 ranges from $295 for 5 user VAP
support to $1895 for 250 USER NLM support. NetSECURE is packaged as a
software kit and includes both 3 .5" and 5.25" diskettes.

Upgrades are available to registered users and will be handled direct from
Tallgrass.

Tallgrass Technologies is a leading supplier of storage management
solutions. Established in 1981, Tallgrass supports an installed base in
excess of 250,000 units worldwide. Celebrating a decade in business as
Architects of Storage Solutions, Tallgrass is represented in twenty-two
countries around the globe.

Tallgrass' series of tape backup systems provide a full range of storage
management solutions enabling Tallgrass to be a single-source provider of
tape backup systems to its distributors.

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
