February 11, 1992-Laurel, MD-XDB Systems, Inc., the SQL technology leader,
expands its relational database management product line by unveiling
XDB-LINK at NetWorld '92, a new software package that permits PC
applications to transparently access mainframe DB2 data. "Developers can
use XDB-Workbench as well as the interactive XDB tools to query, update,
report, browse and enter data directly to DB2," states Robert Strom, XDB's
Senior Development Manager. With XDB-LINK it is now possible to develop
cooperative processing applications in order to use MIS resources more
efficiently. For example, applications and data that reside in distributed
areas can be viewed as a single data center.

The XDB-LINK product consists of two components: XDB-LINK Gateway, which
resides on the PC, and the XDB-LINK Host, which resides on the mainframe.
These components communicate via LU6.2 protocols to satisfy DB2 SQL
requests originated from the PC. The XDB-LINK works with IBM's CICS/APPC
product and VTAM.

XDB-LINK is based on the client-server architecture and supports DOS, OS/2,
and Windows clients. In a development environment, the XDB-LINK product
extends systems level testing to the PC environment by providing access to
mainframe production data. In a production environment, XDB's application
tools (XDB-Workbench, XDB-Tools, XDB-C) and LAN applications can now
access data residing in mainframe DB2 as a database server.

One significant advantage of the XDB-LINK package is increased
productivity. The data transfer procedure has been streamlined since
developers can now transfer data between the PC and the mainframe in one
step. In addition, data access using XDB-LINK's bulk fetch processing
feature is comparable to local 3270 access. Mike Meyer, Principle Systems
Associate with Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company in Newark, NJ said,
"With the LINK's bulk fetch processing feature I can save a significant
amount of time and resources required to fetch multiple rows from DB2."

IBM is scheduled for commercial release of their Distributed Relational
Data Architecture (DRDA) standard next year and XDB intends to supports
DRDA. XDB Systems is committed to providing quality relational database
management products and services. The price range for the XDBLINK is
$21,000 to $36,000 depending upon a company's mainframe CPU size. For more
information stop by Booth #633 or contact XDB Systems, Inc., 14700
Sweitzer Lane, Laurel, MD 20707-2921; (301) 317-6800.

--------------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1992 - Laurel, MD-XDB Systems, Inc., the SQL technology
leader, will be featuring a new version of their SQL Engine for OS/2 at
NetWorld '92. The XDB-SERVER is a high performance, multi-user database
system that brings the power and integrity of mainframe database systems
to LANs. The core of XDB's product line is the 100% DB2 compatible Engine.
Now with the XDB-SERVER for OS/2 version 2.41, DB2 applications become
portable to client-server platforms. Since the XDB-SERVER is network
independent, DB2 compatibility can exist on multiple platforms and
operating systems.

The main benefits of the XDB-SERVER for OS/2 version 2.41 are increased
power and performance. Rusty Fiste, XDB's Director of Development, states,
"XDB's new, enhanced SERVER for OS/2 obtains significant performance gains
because of its improved internal buffer management system which minimizes
disk accesses." Multiple physical disk volumes are now supported. Now
developers can utilize multiple disk volumes to separate various data
objects like indices and databases thereby decreasing the amount of time
required to retrieve data. The size of a database is also no longer
limited by the size of one OS/2 disk volume. In addition, the XDB-SERVER
for OS/2 version 2.41 has greatly enhanced its query optimization.

The XDB-SERVER takes maximum advantage of OS/2 technology. One of the Beta
sites chose XDB-SERVER because they wanted DB2 compatibility on their PC
LAN. Igor Kruglyak, Assistant Vice President & Systems Architect with
Merrill Lynch in Somerset, NJ, states, "We have many users that need to
share DB2 data and the XDB-SERVER provides the fully DB2 compatible
technology for mainframe applications to migrate to the LAN environment."

--------------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1992 - Laurel, MD-XDB Systems, Inc., the SQL technology
leader, will be featuring Version 2.41 of the XDB-Workbench. The new
engine supports both DOS and OS/2 and is designed to provide an
unprecedented level of compatibility with IBM's mainframe relational
database DB2. The XDB-Workbench 2.41 enables COBOL programmers to develop,
test, and run DB2 applications in an inexpensive and friendly PC
environment. XDB has added numerous functions to their new version of
their Workbench 2.41 in order to fine tune their compatibility with DB2.
Rusty Fiste, XDB's Director of Development says, "This latest version of
our workbench delves deep into the distinctive characteristics of DB2."
XDB's reserved words were also made fully compatible with DB2. "This
release further underscores our commitment to ensure 100% compatibility
between XDB's Workbench and DB2," states Rusty Fiste.

"XDB's Workbench version 2.41 is well suited for downsizing mainframe DB2
applications, where DB2 compatibility is a crucial consideration. XDB has
made a remarkable commitment to capture the subtle intricacies of the
DB2/SQL engine," says Jonathan Sayles, Director of Education Services for
The Systems Group and a nationally recognized author on relational
technology. Rick Slade, Senior Research Analyst at Sara Lee in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina said, "I chose the XDB-Workbench for
PC-based development because no recoding would be required when we moved
our project back up to the mainframe."

In addition to DB2 compatibility enhancements, other Product enhancements
include additional referential integrity clauses, date/time functions,
string functions, numeric functions, table privileges, and database
privileges. The XDB-Workbench is the first PC SQL DBMS to provide the
rigorous referential integrity constraints including cascading update, a
fundamental data manipulation function that involves modifying data
records in a continuous series so that all corresponding data is brought
up to date.

XDB Systems sets the standards for database management. Following the
release of the XDBWorkbench Version 2.41, XDB Systems, Inc. will be
releasing their new XDB-LINK product and their new version of the XDB
SERVER engine for OS/2. The XDB-LINK permits PC applications to directly
access mainframe DB2 data. Developers can use the interactive XDB tools to
query, update, report, browse and enter data directly to DB2. The XDB
SERVER for OS/2, a multi-user database system that brings the power and
integrity of mainframe database systems to LANS, will feature increased
power and memory size enhancements.

--------------------------------------------------------
XDB Systems, Inc. offers high performance database solutions that are
powerful, easy to use, and compatible with industry SQL standards. The
XDB-Workbench Version 2.41 makes your PC a complete DB2 applications
development machine. The list price of the XDB-Workbench in $1500.00. For
more information stop by Booth #633 or contact XDB Systems, Inc., 14700
Sweitzer Lane, Laurel, MD 20707-2921; (301) 317-6800.

###


  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  From the America On-Line & PC-Link New Product Info Services |
  +===============================================================+
  | This information was processed with OmniPage Professional OCR |
  | software (from Caere Corp) & a Canon IX-30 scanner from data  |
  | provided by the above mentioned company. For additional info, |
  | contact the company at the address or phone# indicated above. |
  |    All submissions for this service should be addressed to    |
  |   BAKER ENTERPRISES, 20 Ferro Drive, Sewell, NJ 08080 U.S.A.  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
