
             ***** HOW TO WORK THE 900     
                   NUMBER PSYCHIC LINES

                           By
 
                   Bruce Daniel Kettler

                        (C) 1994


No portion of this work may be reproduced without prior written
permission of the author.

                    MCI E-MAIL: 419-8594
          (From Compuserve, type: MCIMAIL: 419-8594)
 
                    Bruce Daniel Kettler           
                        P.O. Box 322
                    Firestone, CO 80520
             

               UPDATED MATERIAL: April 18, 1994


As shareware is distributed on on-line services without charge, I'm
offering this work free of charge.  Often, shareware software is
distributed with a request of donations to be mailed to the author. 

At other times, certain additional features are offered for the
shareware **if** a contribution is sent to the author. 
 
I'm offering nearly all the features of this information right now,
with just a few more lines of information available for a $6.00
donation.
 
You may find and contact the companies on your own and work on one
or more psychic lines, earning as much as $1000.00 per week, with
my blessings, without ever sending me money. 
 
I've sold this in printed form for $8.95, and the information
provided benefits far in excess of that amount -- in monetary gain
and many other forms of satisfaction. 
 
So, if you connect with a 900 psychic line, and the information
here contributes to you earning money in a way that enhances your
spiritual well-being and satisfaction, wouldn't it feel good to
know you sent $6.00 to me.  I worked hard to put this together for
you. 

Normally, I've charged $8.95, but without printing or mailing
costs, you can send $6.00 will be sufficient:

SEND $6.00 check or money order to: 
 
                          Bruce Daniel Kettler 
                          P.O. Box 322 
                          Firestone, CO 80520 
 

If you have an INTERNET, MCI MAIL, or COMPUSERVE e-mail address,
send that with your $6.00 check, and I'll e-mail the information
right away.

What information?  

The names, addresses, and regular toll-call phone numbers of
Psychic Line Network Companies, the one's you work from your own
home.  They will be noted as "[ITEM 2]," "[ITEM 3]," etc. in the
e-mail or paper mail I send to you.

If you were to attempt to obtain the list I supply, with company
addresses and regular toll-call phone numbers, it would cost you
many times more than the $6.00 you contributed.  You could have
looked at some magazine like **Redbook** or **National Inquirer**
and called 900 numbers to obtain office phone numbers, adding $6.00
to $8.00 (2 minutes) to your phone bill FOR EACH ONE.  (Often the
names shown are not listed with directory service.)  Much would be
wasted since many are just phone rooms in cities too far away from
you.  Then you would invest many hours watching both cable TV and
the regular channels, waiting for 2 minute or 1/2 hour ads so you
could continue to add more $6.00 to $8.00 lines on your bill.

     **** THE LIST ALONE IS WORTH MANY TIMES THE
          CONTRIBUTION YOU MAKE FOR THIS MATERIAL. 

If you **DON'T** wish to be on my mailing list, just write that
when you send the $6.00, and I'll comply.  
 
          Here's what you get when you send $6.00 and
          are ***on my list***:
 
1. When it's available, I'll send you information about a
newsletter that you can subscribe to, letting you know of important
changes in the industry, such as when certain companies are hiring,
which companies are particularly profitable for you, etc. 
 
2. When you send e-mail, I'll be particularly grateful to
you, so I'll be more likely to let you know information that will
be helpful -- some new information about a company that's hiring
perhaps.

3. When I start an agency that hires people for 900 companies,
you'll be informed of that fact by mail.  The agency will require
no up-front money from you to get hired. 
 
4. I'll let you know of updates in the material of this book, and
offer you advantages for testimonials that I can print of your
advancement in the 900 line industry because of what you read. 

5. You'll have the satisfaction of knowing the book is being
further distributed to more people, and thus helping them develop
spiritually and as psychics, in large part because of your
contribution.  You will not lose business because of competition. 
This business is presently in an unlimited growth potential mode. 
If the company you're working for needs people, help them grow by
getting all the calls answered.  You may not get non-stop calls,
but that's ok, since you wouldn't get that much business for long
anyway.  An overly competitive attitude isn't healthy spiritually.

**** IF YOU DON'T WANT ANY 2 WAY COMMUNICATION WITH ME, AND YOU
     DON'T WANT TO BE ON MY MAILING LIST, DROP ME A NOTE VIA E-MAIL
     AND LET ME KNOW IF YOU'RE WORKING ON A 900 LINE.  IF YOU'RE
     HELPING OTHERS, AND YOU LET ME KNOW, I'LL CONSIDER THAT A
     CONTRIBUTION.  YOU MIGHT LET ME KNOW WHICH LINE YOU'RE ON, 
     HOW WELL IT'S DOING, WHAT AD'S ARE RUNNING AND SO-FORTH.


NOTE: This publication does not have chapters.
      It's best divided up in short sections.

Neither the author, nor New Dimension Services, accepts any legal
responsibility for the reader's practices of meditation, self-
hypnosis, or others described in this material or books listed. 
Such is done at one's own risk.  Kundilini Yoga is considered
dangerous by some, when practiced by those who are not able to
handle its power, or by those who do not have present with them
teachers who can help.

The success or monetary failure of each reader is likewise, their
own responsibility.  If first pursuit of this does not prove
immediately fruitful, and money is needed for living expenses such
as food and shelter, readers are urged to give other means of
livelihood a priority, pursuing this part time, until it is plain
that the 900 psychic line experience has proved reliable and
sufficient.

The author does not warrant the accuracy of information contained
herein.  Circumstances change, as do phone numbers, addresses, and
company policies.

As you'll see further on, $300. to $600 per week is not difficult
to earn.  This could happen right away for you, or it may take some
time and further experience.  People are now earning $1000. per
week and more working for companies on psychic lines.



                *******DEDICATION:

I dedicate this work to all who would lend a helping hand to those
on the other end of the line, giving some light to an otherwise
darkened path, a light that leads to a more vivid experience of the
divine light within.

And, a special dedication to those struggling through the web of
confusion that exists in the economic maze.  May you find your way
to earn a comfortable living at home, not being subject to
spiritual debilitation through being "bent out of shape by
society's pliers." (Bob Dylan)  Rather, may you find your way to
spiritual upliftment, by your acts of kindness to those on the
other end of the line, and increased psychic ability through
practice.



*****                     INTRODUCTION


         It's important that you read these pages first.

Thank you for your trust, trust in your own ability to spot an
advantage to yourself, to your spiritual and material enrichment,
and trust in me.

This is about helping people, not just making it easier for you to
earn more money.

Here in these first few pages I'm going to show you how this
information will enable you to multiply the $6.00 you contributed
to this author THOUSANDS of times over in cash -- and to begin
QUICKLY.

Later on in this publication, I'm going to show you why you need
three or more companies to work with at a time.  You need a list
to choose from because they all have different criteria for the
types of people they will hire.  They often go from not hiring to
hiring, or the opposite, once each month.

Some of you may be thinking, *I can't work on a psychic 900 line. 
I'm not a psychic.*  


*************************************************************
           
               You ARE psychic.  Everyone is.  I'll
               explain further how  you are, and
               how to enhance that ability. 

**************************************************************



Being a psychic, to some companies, means knowing how to read
tarot cards, or the meanings of numbers in a birthdate or name, or
something about astrology, the positions of various planets, both
at birth and moving in the future.  Other companies will be happy
to have you just listen to people's troubles, and give advice.  

I'm not promoting charlanitism.  I'm saying that you should be
sincere and honest, and that companies advertise various prices,
usually ranging from $2.95 to $3.95 per minute, and the price,
publication, stations advertised on, and whether they pay $.25 or
$.50 per minute sometimes depends upon the abilities and
experience of those answering the phones.  Also, often people who
pay $2.95 per minute do not expect very much psychic ability, but
want to see what the tarot cards say.

There's both good news and bad news about the 900 lines that offer
little to the client.  The bad news is that people often call
expecting more than they get, and they call again out of habit or
loneliness, or they're looking for something that any being can
give if they have a heart, and care.  They are reaching out for
the touch of someone who cares about what they are going through
and can help with some advice.  The bad news, again, is that they
often get little of what they are looking for, even just the
respect that one being should have for another.

The good news is that even in the most deficient of these 900
NETWORK* lines, phone rooms or whatever, there are SOME truly
psychic people, and others with or without much psychic ability
who are loving and caring, who are there because they started out
in an easy-to-obtain position, and developed their ability through
experience.  Many of them go on to the more prestigious and higher
paying 900 lines after that experience.  That's good news for you
if you're just starting out because these companies will hire you
just by you calling them on the phone, without checking
references, and sometimes without any sample reading.

You want to earn $300. to $600. per week, and perhaps up to $1000.
in your own home, answering your phone.  As stated, you do not
have to invest any money, and when you finish reading this, you
will not have to invest in any other material to begin.

There's no need to learn any more than I teach to get started.
The information contained herein is complete, and it shows you how
to do it.  However, if you have no background in these subjects,
once you are started, I urge you to go to your public library and
take out books dealing with ESP, Tarot, numerology, and astrology
(not just what the "signs" mean).  I'd expect many who read my ads
to have a background in metaphysics, concepts of Karma,
reincarnation, etc.  If you don't, then learn about that also. 
There's a "SOURCE" section for additional materials.  This will
ensure that you increase your income through repeat calls to your
extension, because your service will be above average in quality,
compared to others that people have called.  Most definitely, for
your personal life's enrichment, (not just to work 900 lines) you
should use whatever methods you can to enhance your ESP ability.

As promised, this is inside information, in that I've been on the
inside working as a supervisor and have been part of and witnessed
hiring and firing practices, noted the number of people on the
line during certain TV ads, and how many calls were being answered
at certain times.  I've trained and helped other psychics enhance
their abilities through practice.  I have approximately 1000 hours
of two way phone conversation experience, during which I was paid
between $15. and $30. per hour, working at home on my own phone
with the only expense being that of an extra line that ranged from
$8. to $15. per month, with NO long distance charges. (The reason
I advertised NO investment, is that some companies still hire
people to work without an extra telephone line in their home.)

I've had clients call me regularly, using touch tones to dial my
extension number, investing approximately $75. to $125. each time. 
1000 hours at between $120. and $240. per hour amounts to about
$180,000.00 charged for my services.  Additionally, my experience
with paid counselling of clients in-person spans over 23 years. 

I've combed the cable and regular channels for psychic service
ads, and noted which companies advertise, how often they are on,
and which celebrities are in the infomercials.  I've searched the
magazines that advertise 900 psychic lines, also.

In addition to my experience, I've received information from other
psychics working for companies.  Even recently, I've learned of
important changes through these sources.  In a future newsletter,
for those wishing to subscribe, information about events that
occur after this revision will be passed on to all of you in a
timely manner.  I'll send a mailing to all who've ordered this
publication by mail when such a newsletter is available, and how
to subscribe.

I have many contacts who work in this field, some whom I've hired
for a specific company, and others that I've referred to various
companies.  They tell me about the pay they are receiving, address
changes, delays in receiving checks, what well-known people are in
their TV ads, how busy they've been lately, and so on.

I'm giving my e-mail address in this publication.  There are only
two stipulations about that.   The first is that you read this
completely and carefully before you call.  I'll know by your
questions if you've done that.  The second is that the only way
I'll call you on the telephone is if you leave a message offering
me to call you collect.  I cannot guarantee I'll be able to talk
for any minimum period of time.

Contacting me could be an advantage to you because the market is
constantly changing, and new companies are coming into the arena,
giving opportunities to more people.  This publication may not be
quite up to date by the time you get around to finish reading it. 
At some time in the future, I'd like to hire people for various
companies as an agent, contracted through certain companies.  That
will be my advantage should you call and I happen to know of new
companies.  I know what certain companies require, so I'll be sure
you meet the qualifications of those I send you to.  I may ask if
you're interested in subscribing to a newsletter.  You may have
some interesting information about what's happened with a company,
or events in that line of work.  That may be good material for my
newsletter or upcoming book.  You could offer good testimony of
the value of my how-to-do-it advice, something I could include in
an ad for my book.   See, there's all sorts of financial advantage
that I may gain from your call.  Then again, I may tell you of new
companies or give some advice, and not earn any money or gain any
subscriptions at all, but just get some satisfaction in helping
you.  

You can find your own work, using the list supplied here.  Before
you do, be sure you understand what this work is about, what
companies do to test you, and other information contained here.

This booklet is being distributed without great expense.  That's
to your advantage:

     1. Since I'm paying less than binding and printing it would
     cost, I'm only asking for a $6.00 contribution.  *****YOU
     would have paid for it to look fancy.  You wanted something
     of financial and spiritual value, not something to decorate
     your bookshelf with.

     2. It's more up-to-date.  If I'd taken it to a printer, it
     would not be as current, since there would be a quantity
     printed, and no opportunity to make last minute changes.  As
     just one example, there are companies that have changed their
     name or address, some which I've just recently learned of. 
     

I'm not going to write of company policies which are not public
knowledge, that they might not want known.  There are many items
of interest that all the companies have in common, and you'll
learn much of it when you read their rules and contracts.  Much of
the information I give could pertain to any one or number of
companies.

As an example, the method of controlling the computer is through
you calling and (with your touch tones*) using certain codes and
numbers to start or stop receiving calls, hear announcements of
ads that will appear on TV, etc.  That's usually done through a
free 800 phone number.  That's not secret, since it's done that
way by all companies.  However, if I were to tell details about a
certain company that were different than others, and name the
company, it could produce problems for me.  

Another example of what most companies offer, is the fact that you
are "hired," but you are going to be an "independent contractor." 
You'll pay your own taxes, and they generally will not have you
work for them in your home as an "employee."  You'll be expected
to provide your own equipment, which could be an extra $15. phone
(department store type price -- if you don't already have one) and
an extra $8. to $15. per month for a separate line (not always
required).  Cheap phones produce cheap results, however.  You may
have difficulty with intelligibility at first or after awhile.

I will tell you something about certain TYPES of companies, and
how to know whether a company is **PROBABLY** of that type.  This
will be from my own and other people's experience.  You want to be
especially careful about any company that may not pay you, or may
pay you much later than had been originally agreed.

I've received all the pay that was due to me.  That doesn't mean
every other psychic has, and if any of you ever find that there is
a delay, or you do not receive money due, please write me a note
about it.

Pay is usually bi-monthly (1st to 15th -- 16th to last day) or
every 2 weeks, paid usually a few to 10 days after the pay period
is over.  Occasionally, you'll find companies that pay once a
month (and without being obligated, offer advances).  Much less
often, you'll find a company that pays months later, when they
collect from the telephone company, or a holding company.

Most pay you whether they collect from the phone company or not. 
Occasionally, people skip on their phone bills by leaving town or
the country, or just don't pay the 900 line portion of the bill.

I'll tell you who's hiring, though.  They want me to tell you that. 
Even if they are not by the time you read this, they'll still want
you to know of them so you'll be available when they need you.  At
some point, with many people applying there will be, I believe, a
need for agencies to determine qualifications and save some of them
time, and that's a slot I plan to fill.
  
Some companies are expanding at such a pace that TV ads are shown
nationally, both cable and regular channels, and they are
advertising big in publications for more people.  Others are just
starting up, so they need new people.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

(A magazine found in book-stores all over the US - [ITEM 1] name
sent to you via e-mail for $6.00 contribution) had a full page ad
in the Aug. 1993 issue.  Here are some excerpts:

"We're looking for a few good Psychics!"

"If you like doing telephone readings from the comfort of your own
home, you could earn $1000. per week or more."

"The Professional Psychic Counsellor's Network has completed over
1,000,000 successful, quality readings all over America."

"The Professional Psychic Counsellor's Network."

"Call: [ITEM 2]"


+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


     *****The Oct. 1993 issue of [ITEM 1] showed the
     following:

"We are the real thing." 

"Each of our psychics is certified by the strict standards of the
American Association of Professional Psychics for ethics,
credibility and professionalism.  And proven psychic ability."

[ITEM 3]

Write to the certification committee at the above address.


     
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++



In the Dec. 1993 issue of [ITEM 1]:


"We're looking for a few great psychics.  [ITEM 1] Magazine is
creating what will become the premiere live psychic network in
America.  If you are a professional psychic counselor interested
in growing with us, write or call us with your name and address. 
We'll send you and application.  Contact us at:

[ITEM 4]


++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


I advise that you write to The American Association of Professional
Psychics and do *****NOT call.  They specify an address in their
ad, so do as they request.  For The Professional Psychic
Counsellor's Network, do call, as they specify that in their ad. 
With all of the above, if you're not what they consider "great,"
"good," "the real thing," or whatever else they specify in their
ads, don't waste your time or theirs.  There is a list in this
publication, and that includes places to get started.  I'm showing
you the above for those who are qualified to contact them, and for
others as an example that there is expansion in this industry, and
unlimited growth potential from whatever level you start out at.

*
If you don't have a touch tone phone, Radio Shack sells a device
that produces tones. Catalog # 43-139 $15.99.  It does not matter
whether your telephone service area has "true touch-tone service." 
You can dial the number through any method, and only after the
computer has answered does it require tones.  If someone from a
company that wishes to hire you asks if you have "true touch-tone
service," you may answer truthfully, and then continue with an
explanation.  However, if you are talking to one of their less-
experienced people in the office, who normally behave like robots,
quoting what they've been told that you MUST have a "true touch-
tone phone," you could be in for some complicated discussions that
lead no-where.  Use your own judgement.

If your phone produces an optional "click" (pulse) or "tone," then
you don't need the Radio Shack device.  If your local area requires
"clicks," or pulses then use the "clicks" or "pulses" to reach the
computer by having it set on "pulse."  After it starts ringing,
move the switch on the phone to "tone" and press in the appropriate
commands when the voice instructs you to.

"True Touch Tone" simply means that the phone produces tones,
rather than the clicks (or pulses) that some local phone services
require.  Clicks (or pulses) are produced by button activated
phones which are not "true touch tone." The clicks (or pulses) are
also produced by rotating dialers.   


*NETWORK
Usually, when I use that term, or when companies use that in their
name, reference is to a company that allows you to work from your
home.





*****OK, THAT WAS YOUR INTRODUCTION.  LET'S GET DOWN TO STEP-BY-
STEP DOING IT!

1. You read this information, all of it, before you write even one
letter, or make one phone call to the companies on the list.  Be
sure you understand it all, and if not, read it over slowly.  

If you feel you've taken all the steps you needed before you read
this publication, or you're experienced with in-person and/or phone
readings, go right to the list and contact companies to get hired.

*****If practice, mediation, self-hypnosis, or study is required,
then do that before you write any letters, or make phone calls. 
You should know, inwardly, if such is required.  Practice giving
readings to friends, and with friends of friends who are strangers
to learn what you can know about them before they tell you.  You
can do this over the phone.  Use whatever method or methods you
feel comfortable with, numerology, tarot, astrology, your psychic
ability, your counselling ability, your caring heart, just one of
the above, or any combination of them.  You both develop your ESP
(psychic) ability, and test yourself by using playing cards and
keeping score of how often you are correct, using information from
Richard Alan Miller's writing, quoted in this publication.

2. If you feel overtaken by concepts written here, or that you
would require additional reading before you get started, then go
to your library, and read.  Note the "Sources" section at the end
of this publication.  If necessary, get involved with a group that
believes in psychic phenomena, or hang out with people involved
with psychic phenomena, either as work, or perhaps as part of their
leisure activities.  Unity Churches are one good place to start
meeting such people who are both involved with psychic phenomena
and spiritual development. 

3. In addition to developing psychic abilities, allow your
spiritual awareness to grow.  With that spiritual awareness will
come a heart-felt CARING about the client, of their suffering, and
particularly their spiritual growth.  As I wrote in the
introduction, there's much more to this than a way to earn money. 
If you do not have a clear understanding of the workings of Karma,
then you should start considering that an important part of this
work.  Giving readings that are hurtful, either because of
inaccuracy or deception, giving too much advice, so that you take
on the client's Karma

4. Then, after step 1 and/or 2, and/or 3, if you're comfortable
with your ability, start calling and writing.   Fill out
applications, give sample readings using numerology, astrology or
tarot -- and your newly awakened psychic ability.  You may be
required to give a psychic reading to the person on the phone, as
a test to be contracted with a particular company, either right
away or by appointment.  Then again, you may be required to
contact, or be contacted by as many as 3 other psychics for
testing.  Be sure you're in a calm, relaxed state of mind.  This
shouldn't be a pressing issue for you when you test.  You should
be relaxed, and that may require that you make an appointment
rather than being tested right then.  You'll get an idea of what
a reading is like from material in this publication.  The people
testing you, however, all have different ideas and degrees of
psychic ability, if any, they are looking for, so it's not good to
follow any procedure or expectation I could promote.  As I wrote
in the introduction, I'm not going to pin-point particular company
names with descriptions.

5. If you find that "NETWORK" companies, those that hire you to
work from your home are not hiring, they could be in a week or a
month, so call them back later.  Meantime, gain some real
experience by finding the nearest psychic service outlet nearby. 
Call metaphysical bookstores, and note those where live psychic
readings are.  Are there psychic fairs in your area?  Check the
local newspapers for ads.  Ask psychics in metaphysical bookstores. 
Look at bulletin boards in such stores, and call people.  There are
companies that have 900 lines that receive calls from all over the
country, perhaps near where you live -- phone rooms.  These make
good references for when you do get hired on a NETWORK line.  You
find these by looking at **Redbook, **Inquirer, and such like
magazines in your library -- with addresses, and regular toll-call
-- not just 900 -- phone numbers in some of them.

6. After you get hired, continue developing your abilities to
provide accurate readings, and increase your average minutes per
call in a natural way.  If you're with a company you don't
particularly like, as your experience and ability increases, that
will increase your chances of moving up to one that pleases you and
is more profitable.




There are 3 categories of affiliation:

CONTRACTED TO:
You've signed a contract, and just a telephone call will get you
activated with an extension number and other code or codes, if they
happen to need people.  Keeping many people contracted, without
necessarily being activated, gives companies a selling point --
that they have many reserve people -- when they bargain for an
advertiser to contract with.  They want a reserve of contracted
people to get activated quickly without waiting for the mailed
contract.  This way there is usually more calls available for those
they keep activated.  Becoming deactivated, without losing the
contracted status can happen because a company finds you're not on
the line often enough.

WHAT ABOUT CHARGING FOR "GIFTS"
Some people say since psychic ability is a "gift" one should not
charge money.  To begin, yes it's a gift, and some are born with
greater ability than others.  However, to not charge often means
one has to diminish one's psychic ability by doing work that's
spiritually degrading.  Do you know the mind twisting politics
that's often all that's available for employment in some areas? 
Do all psychics have to ability to use intuition for investments
that are profitable for themselves, that would leave plenty of time
available to give their gifts?  Also, how much of this ability is
a "gift."  Actually, it takes work for many to develop their
psychic ability.  In many ways, psychic ability is like a developed
intellect, one in which intelligence improves with work.  People
use their intellect all the time for money, and this world's
monetary system is one we chose before birth to come to.  Why
should psychic ability, which everyone has as well as intellect,
be something one does not charge for it's use?

ACCESS ON THE LINE:
You've been given the necessary information to receive calls. 
Often enough, this requires a signed contract be received by the
company.  At times, a company will ask for the contract right after
you're activated.


DEACTIVATED:
You're no longer able to access the line.  This may be temporary
or permanent.



YOU ARE PSYCHIC:

Everyone is psychic.  It's as real as the eyes you have to see with
(hopefully), the ears you hear with, (hopefully), the way you feel
with your body, and the manner in which you smell.  Some are born
with more or less ESP (Extra Sensory Perception) than others, just
as some are born with better eyesight than others.  However, as it
is with your ability to reason, and as it is with muscular
strength, the more you exercise it, the greater your ESP ability
will improve.

You should believe, at a deep level of your consciousness, that
you have ESP ability available at will.  There are a variety of
methods for bringing that belief to a point that it will produce
accurate results in your readings.  One is self-hypnosis, and
another is the positive experience of seeing what you perceive
inwardly, afterward verified in actual reality.

Though some can be born blind, NO-ONE, animal, human, or whatever,
is born without ESP ability.  I'm using the term, extra sensory
perception here, but will not continue.  The reason I start with
that term is that it's well-recognized.  There's nothing "extra"
about it.

You are psychic, and you were born that way.  Often, though, that
ability is obscured by experience and teaching.  Children are
taught to rely on their logical reasoning ability, to the exclusion
of their instincts.  When children have visions or hear voices,
they are told that they are nonsense.  Children and animals are,
often enough, more psychic than adult humans.

Try not to consider psychic phenomena as a transference of thought,
energy or vibration, but rather a connection, an intimate relation
all of us have with all that is.  As such, space and time are no
barriers.  In the deepest part of you, there is that other person
with their thoughts and feelings, their past and future.  You only
have to look, and there it is, and you can speak its truth. 

The difference between being psychic and "a" psychic, is that the
average person has "hunches" or "feelings" and they come and go
randomly.  "A" psychic, on the other hand, decides when to open
their channels of communication with the universe (deep, inward
realization of their oneness with all -- time, matter, and non-
material) and to a person's energy.  The gap between one or the
other is not a clearly defined, marked barrier, but one of degrees. 
You don't suddenly cross some threshold, and BEHOLD, there you are!

An opinion article in the April 1994 issue of OMNI, by Keith
Harary, is titled, "SELLING THE MIND SHORT: Exposing the myth of
psychic privilege."  Basicly, as I interpret the view expressed,
he's saying that psychic ability should be considered "normal"
instead of "paranormal."  Anannot afford to wait until
"eventually."

If someone calls you, and your answer indicates you're on a psychic
line, they may call you for free readings in the future.

If a phone solicitor or someone calling you for a wrong number
calls you, and the psychic line computer records a busy signal,
you could be logged off automatically and reprimanded, or fired by
the company if it happens too often.

There are ways of saving money for installation of new lines.
Much depends upon where existing extra wire already is,
and whether you are handy with Radio Shack bought wire, or
someone you know is.

The second line phone should have NO call waiting, call forwarding,
or any extra feature, and NO answering device connected to it.



WHAT'S EXCELLENT, GOOD BUSINESS, NOT SO GOOD, AND BAD?

NOTE:
This does not mean you monitor for 24 hours at a time.  One day be
available during the hours you slept, let's say, days earlier. 
Then make an average.


A+ - UNUSUAL
Average over a 24 hour period, 48 or more calls.  This doesn't
usually last more than 2 or 3 months with most companies.  They
either hire too many  people because they are missing calls, or
their advertising results drift off.  At other times, there are
too many charge-backs -- people who don't pay the 900 line charges,
so they cease advertising.

A - EXCELLENT:
Average over a 24 hour period, 36 or more calls.  You may get one
call immediately after another for 2 hours, then wait more than an
hour for each call later.

B - GOOD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 24 calls

C - NOT SO GOOD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 18 calls

D - BAD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 12 calls or less


DO NOT PAY ANY ATTENTION TO MINUTES PER DAY OF OTHERS, WHETHER
AVERAGE OF MANY PEOPLE, OR OF SOME PARTICULAR PERSON, NOT EVEN YOUR
OWN -- WHEN YOU ARE CONSIDERING THE SUFFICIENCY OF A COMPANY.

Your average minutes per call will vary.


WHAT TO SAY WHEN YOU ANSWER:
"Hello, this is (company name) extension (extension number).  My
name is (your first name).  How may I help you?"

"Hello, this is the psychic line.  My name is (your first name). 
Do you want a general reading, or do you have specific questions?"

"Hello, this is (company name) extension (extension number).  My
name is (your first name)  What area of your life do you want me
to focus on?"  

Of the above examples, you many pick one or more combinations that
suit you and the company's rules.


MAKING IT LONGER, ON AVERAGE, UP TO 10 MINUTES PER CALL:

Check your average each day and chart it.  Put the chart on the
wall.  Also, keep a diary of your emotional history and your
between-call activities.  Check it each day and note your
activities and attitudes.

You will probably discover a variation in minutes per call
correlates with certain activities.  One example could be that you
were repeatedly engrossed in a phone conversation with someone, on
the other phone, and then interrupted to answer the psychic line. 
Note that if you were anxious to get back off the line, that shows
in your voice!  Clients say "goodbye" sooner. 

The 10 minute average is a requirement for nearly all companies. 
They won't usually tell you this when they let you go.  If they
lay you off for that, they won't generally tell you why.  The
reason they cannot tell you is that there's been some bad publicity
about 900 psychic lines.  It is a policy of some companies to get
people to practically coerce clients to stay on the line -- even
longer than 10 minutes.  I'm saying your average should gradually
increase to 10 minutes, but not by anything closely resembling
coercion.  Some write memos regarding the 10 minute average, print
it in their manuals, or whatever.  It's a universally agreed
figure.  It doesn't mean that you WILL necessarily be deactivated
if you don't meet the figure, but when the company is ready to shed
people to make room for more minutes for their people, you may be
one of the first to go if your average per call is less than 10
minutes.

Don't think of $3.95 per minute -- how hard it is for you to pay
it.  Think first of all that no matter what price it is, you have
a service that's more than worth it.  Then, remember that many
people who call can easily afford it.  Don't have it in your mind,
even though unconsciously, that the other person needs to get off
the phone right away because they are paying so much.  If it's in
your mind, somehow recondition that mind so you can change your
attitude and your income by producing a 10 minutes per call
average.

There are additional methods of increasing your average minutes
per call.  These are shown in other parts of this material, mainly
having to do with avoiding certain distractions, types of
activities to indulge in between calls, and those to avoid.



INDUSTRY TRENDS:

I predict integration.  With the use of back-up companies, I see
a trend towards mutual cooperation.  Soon you'll see more buy-outs
and mergers.  This will stabilize the industry, and make it more
inviting to clients who call these numbers.  Right now, it's hard
for them to know what to expect.  Psychics they'd been calling
suddenly become unavailable when a particular company's business
slows, and it's sometimes difficult to find other psychics who are
as adept, or who will counsel them as well, one's they'd gotten to
know so well.

Then there will be outstanding leaders in the industry, those who
have the truly adept psychics, and are widely known for that. 
You'll spot them by their heart-felt caring for both the psychics
and the clients.  The companies will be truly profitable, and
consistently so for the psychics, so the best psychics will remain
with those companies.  

It will take some time to see this completed, but it will come
about, and the process beginning is now evident.




TYPES OF PEOPLE WHO CALL 900
PSYCHIC LINES, AND HOW TO HANDLE 
THEM:


CHEATING:
You'll get people asking you if their wife or husband is cheating
on them.  If you say "yes," someone might get murdered.  Do you
want to take the chance of having that on your head?  Do you have
a sense of what karma is about?  It's probably not entirely up to
you though, since many company's you work with don't want you doing
anything to cause damage to people. 

DEATH:
When will I die?  When will my husband die?  My husband is dying
of cancer, when will it be over? (She may really mean, when will
she collect the insurance.)  Do you know the answer?  Well, if you
think you do, best not touch this one.

DISEASE:
How long will this disease last?  Will I die from it?  Don't you
just love questions like that?  What does their doctor say?

HEALTH:
I don't, and you should not give medical advice.  However, if you
feel a certain TYPE licensed physician, such as a holistic
practitioner, would be better, tell them.  I generally refer them
to their nearest metaphysical book store, where there are usually
business cards or fliers on a bulletin board.  NEW AGE JOURNAL has
a listing of holistic practitioners throughout the US.  Their phone
number is (617) 787-2005.

DIVORCE:
He's the one to blame in this one.  Don't you agree?  Better not
touch that one either, at least not to the point where you find
fault.

YOU'RE BEING SO GENERAL:
There are some things you can say that apply to nearly any person,
such as, "You're having some difficult times with the man of your
life."  Well, nearly everyone is.  You could say, you're having a
particularly hard time this year with your spouse," and the client
may say (because they are looking for this to happen) "You're being
so General."  The fact that it's particularly hard that year,
compared to the previous year will be ignored if they are looking
for you to be "general."  You could point out how that what seems
to apply to nearly everyone, could in this case apply more to this
person.

VAMPIRES:
They will ask you the same question of you over and over.  If you
tell them something, they will seem to have forgotten it.  When
you give an account of their lives, and include some detail about
what they will be doing, being very specific, they will ask you a
question that you just told them about.  It seems they never listen
to answers, only ask questions.  There will be huge pauses after
you answer.  They call repeatedly asking each psychic the same
questions until the phone company blocks them from making 900 or
800 calls.  They tell you the saddest accounts of their lives, and
they want you to tell them how wrong people have been to them.  It
seems like forever until they finally say "goodbye" to you, or you
terminate the call.  

Remember, either through habit each time you answer the calls, or
through conscious intent for each call, you connect with these
people psychically -- emotionally, which can make you especially
vulnerable to them draining you.  Either tune them out so you hear
words and are not paying any attention to the vibrations, or find
ways to just connect without the emotion, or use some shielding
technique before you come on-line.  Whatever works for you, use
it.

If you get a few of these in a row, you will feel so drained you
will have to rest.  Be assertive with these people.  Don't create
arguments, but terminate the call gracefully.  Remember, you
usually cannot win arguments in this business.

TALK AND DON'T LISTEN:
They interrupt you repeatedly.  They'll ask questions, then
interrupt you before you complete a sentence.  This, also, is
usually not a productive type communication.

LONELY:
They don't want psychic advice, just a friend to tell their
troubles to.  They usually have much to say, and just want someone
to listen and show they care -- which is fine to do.  If you get
involved in your own subject interests, they will not stay
interested, and will say "goodbye."   They want to talk more than
anything, so let them.  They usually don't ask for any advice, and
they don't want a psychic, just a friend, so you can safely tune
them out, and just listen to the words.

FANATIC:
They have some religious trip for you, usually to tell you the
devil has you up to this psychic stuff.  Don't argue with them. 
Help them without selling yourself out or fighting them.

SO-CALLED SKEPTIC:
They think there's no such thing as psychic ability in anyone. 
They will attempt to prove it with you.  Oh, what fun you'll have! 
The problem with these types who are NOT "skeptical" is that no
matter what proof you have, they will rationalize it away.  That's
OK, it's their money, and if that's what they want to spend it on,
go to it.  It won't be frustrating to you if you understand their
game, which often enough even they don't know.  They THINK they
are "skeptical," and "open minded," trying to find out if psychic
phenomena exists.  Actually they are just trying to act out their
foregone conclusion.  There are actual skeptical people, who are
open minded, but the "so-called skeptic" is what I'm referring to
here.  They are creating what they expect.

TELL ME WHAT TO DO:
They want to know what their decision should be.  That means they
want you to take on their KARMA.  Do you want that?  Whatever you
tell them and they do, even if you or the company never hears from
them again, you will be living their life and sharing that
responsibility.  Don't fall into that trap.  Tell them the options,
the probabilities, and let them decide.  There's some advice you
can give, but not EVERYTHING.  You'll have to decide with each
particular case when you might be giving TOO MUCH advice.


WHAT IS MY DESTINY?:
Will I do this, or will I do that.  Will he do this, or will he do
that?  Some people calling the line think humanity is composed of
robots.  There is destiny, and there is free-will:  

                         Destiny vs.
                         free-will

     When you've asked yourself or someone else such as a
     psychic or psychic astrologer the question, "What will
     happen in my future," what did that mean to you?

     Will I find the right mate?
     Am I going to get a good job?
     Will I be rich?
     Will I be lucky?
     When will it happen?

     And, for World Events, you've wanted to know if your
     country would win a certain war, who would get elected,
     and so on.  

     Getting rich, or finding a wonderful person to marry,
     happens because of both destiny and free-will.

     Psychics, astrologers, tarot readers, and you can
     discover your own destiny, but destiny is probability,
     not fact.  The beliefs generated by your free-will, along
     with your thoughts and actions, all interweave with
     destiny to bring about actual events.

     What is luck?  It has different meanings, depending upon
     the person using the word.  To some it is a fixed thing,
     outside themselves, that makes them win the lottery, or
     brings them a hot love affair.  To others, it's something
     they have some control of. 
 
     Probabilities have varying degrees of intensity.

     Mount Everest is large, and the probability of its
     continued existence in the same position to at least the
     year 2010 is high. Your probability of physical
     continuation to 2010 is not so high, no matter what your
     present age or health.

     One of Earth's wisest men, Jesus Christ, said that if you
     believed that a mountain would be moved from one spot to
     another, it would move.

     A large mountain has a destiny to stand still.  A person
     looking at it has a destiny to see it not move from one
     spot, by observation (effect) and by belief (cause).  Yet
     the mountain can be moved, no matter what the probability
     is otherwise, if the belief is of greater intensity than
     the original probability of it standing still. 

     If you follow reincarnation's beliefs, you may say that
     you brought yourself to certain parents, to whatever
     country you were born, by your beliefs.

     Your destiny is interwoven with that of others, and as
     you continue to follow destiny's patterns, you may meet
     certain important people in your life.  Then, too, you
     may win the lottery. 

     Here's an example of how destiny works with free-will:

     A high probability future like a marriage to a certain
     person you haven't yet met is a destiny.  Your beliefs
     may change that event, but it's not likely.  Another
     lesser intensity probability may be that life with that
     person will be filled with conflict.  Your free-will may
     help to change the conflict to that of harmony, though
     it had not prevented your meeting and attraction.

     Our major world's events up to about this time, near the
     year 2000, (The beginning of the Age of Aquarius) were
     set thousands of years ago.  Now we need present day
     prophets for the time ahead because this is a New Age of
     Enlightenment.  We're creating more of our own destiny,
     rather than so many of the events known thousands of
     years ago.  
 
     The basic application of this idea, that we're creating
     more of our world events now, when applied to your
     individual life, can be helpful.  The more enlightened
     you are about how your consciousness works, the greater
     is your power to change your life's destiny through your
     beliefs.

     We need to know our future, see the road map ahead, and
     find the main highways (destinies) that belong to our
     unique individual selves or our planet.  Then, with the
     use of that knowledge, we may plan and modify with
     free-will our paths (the side roads) through life
     beforehand to give our journey the freedom, enlighten-
     ment, and happiness that is our birthright.


COUNSELING:
There has to be, whenever people are open to it, some counseling. 
You'll either help them with certain circumstances, or inform them
that they can rid themselves of depression, lack of self-love, job
problems, or love life problems.  They should know they have the
ability to create their lives the way they want to.  You should 
know all this yourself from experience, and then help them with it. 
There's much material about this in the "sources" section of this
publication.


AVOID DISTRACTIONS:
With 2 lines, you should have your answering machine turned down
and the ringer off so you don't hear it.  If you were expecting a
call, hearing the ringer may have you wondering if it was who you
were waiting for while talking with a client.  There are many
things you may allow between calls, but whatever they are, it
should be possible to eliminate them when your 900 line rings.

You may have a better ability to focus on your work, so what
distracts others, may not distract you.  Also, as your psychic
ability improves, the TV, as an example, may not be as detrimental
to you.  The TV between calls doesn't affect me as much as it did
over a year ago.  Still, I very seldom watch it between calls
because I know it does have some effect.
TV AD CYCLES:
Some TV ads are popular only for a period of time, and business
slows down when the ads have been repeatedly shown and seen by the
same viewers.  Then new ads are produced and shown.  During the
interim of the old ad being replaced by the new one, your business
can decrease for that company, or drop off to an insignificant
amount.  If you're working for 3 companies, you can activate with
any of them at any time just by calling the free 800 number.  Some
require that you monitor for a certain number of hours per week,
usually 15 to 20, for you to stay active in their computer system. 
If there's a reasonable amount of business (close to the same
amount of business you receive from the company you're investing
more time with, during certain times of the day) do so, no matter
how adequate your main company is at any given time.   Then too,
I've known people who were deactivated just because they were part-
time and the company wanted to be sure there was enough business
for the full-timers, or because certain psychics were not producing
a certain number of minutes per call.  If for any reason you are
dropped, it's best you have other companies to work with right
away.

SOME WANT TO HURT PEOPLE:
Yes, there are people who endeavor to put psychics through some
kind of difficult mental changes.  Remember, they do this all the
time to many people, whether psychic or not.  You're just another
one in their way.  Also, I know this is easy to say, but don't be
affected by it.  You can detach from your emotions, so that you're
not affected.  I don't mean you should not feel emotions, nor do
I mean you should take abuse.  However, your resistance to such
people will bring more of them in your rotation.  Just DON'T RESIST
by emotionally condemning them, even in so-called "secret." As Dick
Sutphen would say, "Winding lost objects, just find what extension
numbers have those specialties, from the main office, and refer the
client to those numbers.  You can also do your best to help the
client, without taking too much time, and then refer them to the
other extension numbers.  I've had people tell me they didn't feel
qualified to find lost objects, and that after reading in a
newsletter that another psychic did, did not feel adequate to the
task.  I explained that there were specialties, and that person
could refer to another extension.  Also, when referring to another
extension, be sure that you make it clear how to dial them, whether
a touch-tone phone would be needed, or whatever.

TERMINATION:
Contract provisions are different with the companies.  Some will
warn you first, and others will not.

REPEAT CALLS:
People who like you and your service will want to call back and
speak with you specifically.  This is done with the voice-mail
system on the 900 number.  You should give your extension number
to clients before saying "good-bye."  Some companies can have you
leave an announcement for those who dial your extension when you're
not on duty.  It will give the times and days of the week you are
available.  When you record it, place times that the line is NOT
busy, when there are no major ads running.  This can be as little
as one hour a day, or one hour per week.  Use some standard time,
usually where the company is located, when you give the times,
example: "I'll be available Monday thru Thursday, 6 to 10 PM
Eastern Time."  For companies that don't have the recording
facility, it's best to give your extension and  schedule to the
client while you have them on the line.  Some companies use touch-
tone, and others use a voice activated system so that a person need
only speak your extension number and be connected to you.

Somc companies offer the first minute free on certain 900 
numbers.  With this, the client can call, try your extension
number, and hang up within one minute without incurring any cost. 
They can call youmor.  Make SHORT jokes.  Kid with the people. 
Perhaps be a bit sexy -- in a way that's not overt, sort of like
allude to sexual subjects, without being direct.  Keep the people
interested, and they'll stay with you and find the conversation
entertaining.  Bore them and they'll hang up or just say good-bye
and hang up.  You're not there JUST to deliver facts.  Deliver them
in an entertaining manner.


TECHNICAL PROBLEMS:
Usually there's a number that a company will want you to call with
technical problems.

You can get logged off for not answering too many calls in a row
(usually 2) and that causes the client to wait till your phone
rings a certain number of times (usually 2) and then the number of
rings for the next person in the cycle.  Many times you get the
call the second one.  Some companies will require you go through
a procedure to get logged on, and others may just send you a notice
in the mail.  Some are very strict, and if this happens 2 Times in
a week, you'll get a termination of the contract.

There are many other technical problems.  Some systems will go
wrong and no-one will receive calls, so the company wants to get
their beeper beeped when that happens, so they don't lose a lot of
money.

Be aware that some systems will take a non-answered call and
transfer it to you.  You may pick up at YOUR 2nd ring, but to the
caller it's been an inordinate time that they have been waiting. 
They do not hear numbers of rings, only recordings that are
designed to keep them patient.  It's hard to stay patient when one
knows it's $3.95 per minute and no-one is talking to the person.

When a system is not working properly, it may register you as not
answering your phone, when in fact you're just getting the second
or third pass-off of someone else not answering.  That should be
corrected by the technical staff that your company either hires out
temporarily, or has permanently employed.

REFERRING TO ANOTHER PSYCHIC:
If you're not comfortable with tarot, astrology, or other
specialties like f astrology here." Others will say, "You didn't
even ask my birth date, so how can you tell about what will
happen."  If you answer too quick for them, some will say "You're
getting that off the top of your head."  Then if you find it
necessary to take your time with others, they'll say, "I'm paying
$3.95 per minute for this, so hurry up and answer my question." 
Some will talk non-stop, ask you questions, then go on talking if
you are unable to answer instantly.  Then they'll complain to you
that you had no psychic input for them.  I once told one of these
people that if she'd stop talking for just 10 seconds after asking
a question, that I'd be able to answer for her.  She did so, and
my answers showed her that I did know things that she'd not told
me.

REPEAT CALLERS:
The most effective way to get many repeat callers is to just say,
"Let me know how things turn out?" and give your extension number. 
Most will not ask when you'll be available.  It's best to tell them
times and days of the week you will be available.


HANGUPS:
People will hang up when you first answer.  Then, too, some systems
will malfunction and it will seem they are hanging up on you. 
Often enough, people want female psychics and they hang up when
they hear a male voice.  Some will say to you they want a female
when they hear your male voice.  Then, too, people will hang up on
you in the middle of calls.  Don't get offended, but find out why
you were so uninteresting, so the next person won't do it also.

YOU HANGING UP:
Don't hang up on anyone unless the person is obscene and you find
that offensive, or VERY obnoxious.  Don't do it because you've been
put on the spot or feel uncomfortable about not being able to
provide the service that's expected.  There are reasons why you may
not be able to do what certain people ask.  Explain that, whether
what's requested is not your specialty, if there is a certain
extension number you can tell the client for certain specialties,
or whatever.

STAY INTERESTING:
Use your sense of hor anything like that MUST be avoided.  You may
get started in this business, begin giving readings over the phone
without much of that understanding, but to promote your life
working in harmony, and at peace, truly helping others, you'll have
to have that.  With an inward understanding of spiritual truth, 
an ability to COUNSEL will automatically come.



LIST OF COMPANIES TO CONTACT:

Now, here's the list of companies to contact, but do so only after
you understand more about the business from this publication, and
if necessary, other material you obtain from your public library. 
If practice and meditation is needed, do that.  See the "Sources"
section at the end of this publication.


     
  PAN                             Telepsychic
  P.O. Box 240051                 P.O. Box 651
  Los Angeles, CA 90024           Fayetteville, AR 72702 
                                  
  ICI Contracting                 [ITEM 3]
  1325 S. 4th St.                 
  Las Vegas, NV  69104            
             
                                  [ITEM 5]
  The Psychic Center              
                                  
  FLORIDA                         
  voice: 305-753-6666             
  voice: 305-587-8935
  
  [ITEM 6]                        [ITEM 7]
              
            
                 
               
  
  [ITEM 8]                        
                                  [ITEM 9]
   
  
  
  

  [ITEM 10]                       [ITEM 11]
  
  
  
  
  
  
                                  [ITEM 12]
  Mile Hi Psychics                
  DENVER, CO                      
  303-446-8290                    
                                  
                    
  Conversations                   S & C Services 
  Rt. 8, Box 4796                 P.O. Box 1042
  Pearland, TX 77584              Fairlawn, NJ 07410

  Psychic Connections             JPI
  P.O. Box 2018                   P.O. Box 39682
  Hoboken, NJ 07030               Los Angeles, CA 90039

  Interstate Int.                 Astrology Association
  P.O. Box 166                    P.O. Box 821073
  Los Angeles, CA 90078           Fort Worth, TX 76182

  Astrology Association           Phone Vision, Inc.
  P.O. Box 821073                 P.O. Box 307
  Fort Worth, TX 76182            Mill Valley, CA 94942

  [ITEM 4]                        PKI 
                                  1508 E. 86th St.
                                  Suite 108
                                  Indianapolis, IN 46246



   LIVE ASTROLOGERS              800-955-7176
   PHONE VISION                  215-476-2099
   MEDALLION MARKETING           702-251-1415
   WELL                          904-837-8838
   PROCALL                       602-631-0615
   ZENOBIA                       808-327-7276
   REAL PEOPLE, LTD.             312-988-7464
   WESTSTAR COMMUNICATIONS       818-377-9643
   UNI ACCESS                    310-475-1136


Of the above, as far as I know, only Lorraine Gouger (Vision
Network), Telephone Consul. Svcs, Penta, the Lighthouse Network,
Professional Psychic Counsellor's Network (PPCN), Psychic
Discoveries Network, American Association of Professional Psychics,
New Life Communications, and Numina Communications (above item
numbers) have networks that you can work from your own home.  With
the others, you must work in their office.

If a psychic speaks only Spanish, you may refer that person to
Numina, and for those who speak both Spanish and English, that
would be a plus to Numina.

If you live in the Denver, CO area, you can contact Mile Hi
Psychics, as they have a phone room there, and you can work in
their office.  They have ads which are seen nationally.

Most recently there have been 6 companies that advertised on TV 
throughout the country for 1/2 hour, with particularly famous or
well-known people hosting:
 
NUMINA COMMUNICATIONS           Debbie Reynolds (actress) (but some
(formerly Avatar)               younger people may not recognize 
                                her).  The well-known psychic Kenny 
                                Kingston was also on, but as far
                                as I know, not anymore.  The well-
                                known Psychic, Greta Alexander,  
                                who's been on the TV show        
                                "Sightings," appeared in a 1/2 hour 
                                infomercial.
                 
PPCN                            Dionne Warwick (singer) Long time
                                World Famous Psychic, Jeanne     
                                Dixon, and Psychic to such stars
                                as Redd Fox, Linda Georgian

Lorraine Gouger (Vision Network)Erik Estrada ("Chips" actor)
                                Jenilee Harrison (of "Dallas" and
                                "Three's Company")
                                World Famous psychic, Kebrina    
                                Kinkade, having received official
                                recognition from the State of    
                                California, the FBI, and Scotland
                                Yard.  Psychic of Sean Connery,
                                Milton Berle, and other stars.

PSYCHIC DISCOVERIES NETWORK     LaToya Jackson (Michael Jackson's
                                sister) Lately, also Kenny       
                                Kingston. 

LIGHTHOUSE NETWORK              Well-known psychic astrologer,
                                Joyce Jillson -- known as Nancy  
                                Reagan's astrologer.  Recently   
                                started Joyce Jillson infomercials
                                in Canada.

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION            Jackie Stallone appears in an
OF PROFESSIONAL PSYCHICS        infomercial.




These companies advertise on TV, with not so well known people
hosting:


NEW LIFE COMMUNICATIONS:        Currently, new 1/2 hour
                                infomercials are appearing
                                on NYC cable channels, and
                                elsewhere.



Some advertising has no reference to the actual company that
receives the call.  There are times when these TV ads are produced
completely before the advertisers know what company will be
receiving the calls.  They can be made in such a way that 900
numbers can be changed, or the number may remain the same with
calls routed to a certain company or to companies.  After you are
contracted with a company, you'll find out what ads are being
shown.  

You can call a 900 number you see on TV, and ask the psychic what
company they are with.  Remember, this can be confusing, as you may
get a back-up company, and -- if such a policy is in force -- there
may be more than one company that calls are routed to from any
given advertiser.

To find out when, and on what cable or regular TV channel ads are
shown, consult local listings for "paid advertising," or
"commercial programming."  Then call the station to ask when
certain commercials (called "infomercials") are showing for 1/2
hour.  You can also just check during the time slots shown in the
listings to see what is being advertised.

PPCN has recently been seen on the cable TV "Discovery Channel" as
well as TV stations throughout the USA.  In the past, I've noted
them on the FOX cable network, as well as WOR cable.  Vision
Network has been on local TV stations and VH1 cable, and there
could have been others I didn't see them on.   I haven't seen
Lighthouse Network on TV in several months, but they have been seen
on VH1 and local channels throughout the USA, including Hawaii. 
I've noted short ads for ICI on WGN cable TV.  Some months ago, I
noticed Penta advertising with short ads on a local Denver TV
station.

In addition to paid advertising, there's been much publicity about
PPCN.  Dionne Warwick has appeared on TV talk shows, telling of it. 
David Letterman had one of the telephone psychics on his show. 
Both Jay Leno and Arsenio Hall have made jokes about PPCN.  A
comedian on Arsenio Hall said, "Dionne can't even find her way to
San Jose, so how's she psychic."?


Many of the schedules vary from week-to week.  

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WHAT THE COMPANIES WANT:

Lorraine Gouger (Vision Network)
They are not in the business of teaching people, so they only want
experienced people.








+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Here's my e-mail address, and I'll answer you on Internet, MCI or
Compuserve, but remember to write and ask questions not covered
here.  Also, I've written more, in the introduction, about writing,
so read that first:

                     
      (accessible via Internet, Compuserve, and others)
               E-MAIL ADDRESS: MCI 419-8594
 



*****WHY YOU PROBABLY NEED TO BE CONTRACTED TO MORE THAN ONE
COMPANY AT A TIME:

It is not always necessary to be contracted to more than one
company at a time.  If you're working with one that is both
honorably providing authentic services, and providing you an
adequate income consistently, why make life complicated?   At the
present time, however, that's unlikely for many competent psychics
who've worked 900 psychic phone lines, even for years, to be
connected with such a company.

You will find that TV ads shown nationally, both cable and regular
channels, are popular only for a period of time, and business slows
down when the ads have been repeatedly shown and seen by the same
viewers.  Then new ads are produced and shown.  During the interim
of the old ad being replaced by the new one, your business can
decrease for that company, or drop off to an insignificant amount. 
If you're working for 3 companies, you can activate with any of
them at any time just by calling the free 800 number.  Some require
that you monitor for a certain number of hours per week, usually
15 to 20, for you to stay active in their computer system.  If
there's a reasonable amount of business (close to the same amount
of business you receive from the company you're investing more time
with, during certain times of the day) do so, no matter how
adequate your main company is at any given time.   Then too, I've
known people who were deactivated just because they were part-time
and the company wanted to be sure there was enough business for the
full-timers, or because certain psychics were not producing a
certain number of minutes per call.  If for any reason you are
dropped, it's best you have other companies to work with right
away.



There are 3 categories of affiliation:

CONTRACTED TO:
You've signed a contract, and just a telephone call will get you
activated with an extension number and other code or codes, if they
happen to need people.  Keeping many people contracted, without
necessarily being activated, gives companies a selling point --
that they have many reserve people -- when they bargain for an
advertiser to contract with.  They want a reserve of contracted
people to get activated quickly without waiting for the mailed
contract.  This way there is usually more calls available for those
they keep activated.  Becoming deactivated, without losing the
contracted status can happen because a company finds you're not on
the line often enough.

WHAT ABOUT CHARGING FOR "GIFTS"
Some people say since psychic ability is a "gift" one should not
charge money.  To begin, yes it's a gift, and some are born with
greater ability than others.  However, to not charge often means
one has to diminish one's psychic ability by doing work that's
spiritually degrading.  Do you know the mind twisting politics
that's often all that's available for employment in some areas? 
Do all psychics have to ability to use intuition for investments
that are profitable for themselves, that would leave plenty of time
available to give their gifts?  Also, how much of this ability is
a "gift."  Actually, it takes work for many to develop their
psychic ability.  In many ways, psychic ability is like a developed
intellect, one in which intelligence improves with work.  People
use their intellect all the time for money, and this world's
monetary system is one we chose before birth to come to.  Why
should psychic ability, which everyone has as well as intellect,
be something one does not charge for it's use?

ACCESS ON THE LINE:
You've been given the necessary information to receive calls. 
Often enough, this requires a signed contract be received by the
company.  At times, a company will ask for the contract right after
you're activated.


DEACTIVATED:
You're no longer able to access the line.  This may be temporary
or permanent.
*****


YOU ARE PSYCHIC:

Everyone is psychic.  It's as real as the eyes you have to see with
(hopefully), the ears you hear with, (hopefully), the way you feel
with your body, and the manner in which you smell.  Some are born
with more or less ESP (***Extra ***Sensory ***Perception) than
others, just as some are born with better eyesight than others. 
However, as it is with your ability to reason, and as it is with
muscular strength, the more you exercise it, the greater your ESP
ability will improve.

You should believe, at a deep level of your consciousness, that you
have ESP ability available at will.  There are a variety of methods
for bringing that belief to a point that it will produce accurate
results in your readings.  One is self-hypnosis, and another is the
positive experience of seeing what you perceive inwardly, afterward
verified in actual reality.

Though some can be born blind, NO-ONE, animal, human, or whatever,
is born without ESP ability.  I'm using the term, ***extra sensory
perception here, but will not continue.  The reason I start with
that term is that it's well-recognized.  There's nothing "extra"
about it.

You are psychic, and you were born that way.  Often, though, that
ability is obscured by experience and teaching.  Children are
taught to rely on their logical reasoning ability, to the exclusion
of their instincts.  When children have visions or hear voices,
they are told that they are nonsense.  Children and animals are,
often enough, more psychic than adult humans.

Try not to consider psychic phenomena as a transference of thought,
energy or vibration, but rather a connection, an intimate relation
all of us have with all that is.  As such, space and time are no
barriers.  In the deepest part of you, there is that other person
with their thoughts and feelings, their past and future.  You only
have to look, and there it is, and you can speak its truth. 

The difference between being psychic and "a" psychic, is that the
average person has "hunches" or "feelings" and they come and go
randomly.  "A" psychic, on the other hand, decides when to open
their channels of communication with the universe (deep, inward
realization of their oneness with all -- time, matter, and non-
material) and to a person's energy.  The gap between one or the
other is not a clearly defined, marked barrier, but one of degrees. 
You don't suddenly cross some threshold, and BEHOLD, there you are!

An opinion article in the April 1994 issue of OMNI, by Keith
Harary, is titled, "SELLING THE MIND SHORT: Exposing the myth of
psychic privilege."  Basicly, as I interpret the view expressed,
he's saying that psychic ability should be considered "normal"
instead of "paranormal."  An expansion of his view, into my own
perception of the matter has led me to believe that there's some
sort of "psychic politics" going on, sort of like the politics of
medicine.  Some monstrous priesthood has developed around medicine,
and it's attempts at choking off any remains of unorthodoxy are
failing.  With "psychics," as they are called, some would try some
degree of orthodoxy, some kind of rigid standards or tests to prove
who exactly ***is and who ***isn't really a psychic.  Tests can
prove certain things, no doubt.  However, the whole realm is
nebulous, (ie. Astrologically, Neputune rules it, and is
characterized as "nebulous") and to attempt a totally concrete and
exacting scientific criteria is absolutely ridiculous.

A psychic priesthood is being promoted.  The people who are
considered "psychic" are on one side of humanity, and on the other
side are those who are "not."  How riciculous!?  Everyone is
psychic!  It's much like a person who ***is*** a doctor, and one
who ***is not.  We are all healers.  There's at least a latent
ability in everyone to heal themselves and others.  Certainly, the
credentials of a doctor are quite useful in showing their
qualifications.  However, the notion that a doctor just tells the
patient what to do, without any question or feedback, is crazy. 
It's from an old orthodox medicine practice, and times "they are
a-changing." (Bob Dylan)

Spiritual awareness and psychic phenomena are interrelated, but you
do have psychic experiences that are not dependent upon your
spiritual growth.  I recommend that you work on both spiritual
awareness, and understanding of your relationship with all that is,
material and non, along with psychic development.  If you look at
this as a "power," you're correct, but if it is that to you,
without the wisdom to handle it correctly, your work with it could
hurt others and yourself.

Here's some material, written by a psychic, about self hypnosis,
and how it relates to psychic phenomena.  Psychic ability is
enhanced while in a hypnotic state.  The fact of enhanced psychic
ability under induced self-hypnosis was shown through the
experimentation of Richard Alan Miller:


RICHARD ALAN MILLER ESP TEST:

          On September 21, 1975, Llewellyn Publications
          sponsored the World's First Psychic Tournament
          in Minneapolis, MN.  The author of this paper
          was also invited to test the proposed models
          for inducing ESP ability using forms of
          self-hypnosis. 

          Using the technique of ESP induction through
          forms of self-hypnosis as outlined in this
          paper, Richard Miller did not have a single
          run less than 16 out of twenty.  His total
          score was 83 out of 100, more than two orders
          of magnitude greater probability than scores
          of nationally recognized psychics.
          
          The clairvoyance test consisted of twenty (20)
          cards randomly pulled from ten (10) poker
          decks.  Each participant was to guess the suit
          of each card.  With one chance in four of
          guessing the correct suit, the average score
          for a run of 20 cards with no ESP ability is
          5.  Each participant was given five (5)
          different runs.  A final score determined the
          winner, with a total of 25 representing the
          norm.

          What happened is now history: More than 50
          percent of those participating showed normal
          scores ranging from 22 to 27 out  of  a
          possible 100.  Most of the more well-known
          psychics showed some paranormal ability in
          clairvoyance, as expected, with total scores
          averaging between 8 and 12 correct answers out
          of 20.  One well known psychic even had a
          score as high as 61 out of a total possible
          100.

          ESP INDUCTION THROUGH FORMS OF SELF-HYPNOSIS
          
          (reprinted in part with permission of the
           author)
          
          by Richard Alan Miller, Organization for the
          Advancement of Knowledge, Inc., 1305 Vista
          Drive, Grants Pass, OR  97527 503-476-5588
          
          ============================================
          Abstract:

          Working with current definitions  of 
          self-hypnosis, a series of postulates are 
          developed toward relating hypnosis to 
          extra-sensory perception (ESP).  This 
          includes a mathematical formula on how to
          cross-culturally induce ESP via forms of
          self-hypnosis. 
          
          =============================================
          Definitions:

          The purpose of this paper is to relate
          extra-sensory perception to hypnosis.  The
          standard definitions used for hypnosis often
          includes that it is a borderline state between
          sleeping and waking.  Any state characterized 
          by an intense concentration of attention in
          one area, accompanied by a profound lack of
          attention in other areas, may also be
          considered hypnosis.  With this type of
          definition, everyone is considered to be
          continuously in a light state of hypnosis.

          The depth of hypnosis, which is an implied
          issue in this definition, may be defined as
          the difference between the intensity of
          concentration in one sphere or area, and the
          depth of inhibition in others.  Attention
          focused in one area creates a corresponding
          lacuna, or lack of attention, in other areas
          of the brain.  Deeper states of hypnosis are
          created by centering the attention for
          prolonged periods.

          With these definitions of hypnosis, a useful
          model for relating hypnosis to extra-sensory
          phenomenon is now possible.
          ============================================

          The  frequently  reported  cases  of crisis
          telepathy  --  ESP contact between two
          persons, one of whom is dying or in grave
          danger --  are necessarily associated with
          intense thought or concentration. 

          Extra-sensory perception is often observed  in 
          hypnosis, a state characterized by a single
          intensive thought.  Recurrent cases of
          psycho-kinetic phenomena, such as the
          haunted-house variety, are often reported to
          be connected with previous tragic events,
          associated with intensity of concentration.

          The discovery of mental impregnation, known in
          the literature as psychometry, gave evidence
          that repeated identical thoughts increase the
          expected psychic effect.  Wearing a ring for
          a long time  will "imprint" memory of the
          wearer onto the ring: just slipping a ring on
          and then off and handing it to a Psychometrist
          will not generally reveal any memory of the
          wearer.

          Religious tradition asserts that repeated
          prayers may be more effective that a single
          one.  In other words, the more you repeat the
          same prayer, or the more you do a single
          ritual, the greater the effect. 
          
          =============================================
          The method for inducing extra-sensory
          perception through forms  of self-hypnosis is:

          (1) Formulate the question.

          (2) Hold that thought for as long as possible.

          (3) Assume that the event has occurred.

          (4) Drop into a "blank mind" state and wait.
          ==============================================


The following, my endorsement of tapes, is not closely related to
the above of Richard Alan Miller.  This does not constitute an
endorsement by Richard Alan Miller for the following:

     **************Valley of the Sun has a video self hypnosis
     tape "Develop Psychic Ability Now," for $19.95, VHS113. 
     There's a cassette tape album, "How to rapidly develop
     psychic ability," workshop, hypnosis, and subliminal
     programming, for $24.95 C837.  Their toll free phone is
     1-800-421-6603. 

The above is for deepening your belief that you are psychic, and
thus enhance your ability, not the same as inducing hypnosis to use
psychic ability while in a hypnotic trance.

To improve psychic ability, I recommend you read and thoroughly
understand the writing of Pete A. Sanders, Jr. in his book,
*****************You Are Psychic.  In the "SOURCES" section, note
it's in a medium size town's public library.  This book will show
there are certain parts of the body which relate to certain psychic
senses.  You should know of them, and practice meditations shown
in the book.

Knowing and then trusting your inner senses will improve your
ability greatly.  The more you trust and then act upon them,
finding fruitful results thereby, the faster your ability will
improve.  

Write down your dreams upon awakening.  Before going to sleep,
dwell upon having revealing dreams that answer your questions.

Practice thought transference with friends, with images drawn on
paper, telling the suits of cards drawn, etc.

Next time the phone rings, know who it is.  You may be wrong, but
gradually, with persistence you'll be correct more often than
incorrect.

Telephone soliciting is legal in most states.  Check with an
attorney or some other source.  It's called, these days,
"telemarketing."  Telemarket your psychic ability.  Use a prefix
before dialing to eliminate usage of "caller ID" of the other party
(*67 usually).  Make local calls that are free, if your phone
company has a "free" area -- or less expensively if you can afford
it for some other type area.  *****

After you've learned and practiced using methods shown in this
publication and others, and proven your ability, pick an area of
the phone book, and start calling people.  Tell each person that
you are giving free, sample readings, and it will only take a few
moments. 

After hearing the voice for awhile, talking about the weather, or
any other subject, ask for a moment of silence to tune into the
person's energy.  Then proceed to tell the person things about
themselves, such as how many children they have, their sexes, etc. 
If you're practiced at clairvoyance, describe the clothing the
person is wearing, or other details such as hair color.  Most
people will accurately tell you whether you are correct or not. 
Later, with others, write down the details and ***then ask the
person how many children they have, their sexes, etc.  This will
enable you to prove your ability to yourself, leaving out the
possibility that anyone is falsely agreeing with you.  There are
other details such as if a person just lost a job, is just recently
separated from a spouse, etc.

You may be wrong a number of times, but keep calling others.  Some
people may just be hard to tune in to (because of a difference, or
because of them particularly).  Then again, you may need practice
getting yourself into that state of mind, and recognizing the
feeling of it, that you will likely be accurate.

You don't have to be ashamed of being innacurate.  If you're
ridiculed, so what?  Go on to the next person, and the next, until
you're really appreciated.  As you improve, the appreciation will
be forthcoming with a greater percentage of those called.  If you
don't want to give "free sample readings," then say it's an
experiment, and you'll be surprised at how many will be intrigued
to test your ability.

In addition to TESTING and ENHANCING THROUGH PRACTICE your psychic
ability, you'll gain in-person clients.  There will be a good many
people who will be amazed and quite interested in meeting you in-
person either at their home or yours -- and paying you for your
services.

Realize that even the "best" psychics are only a certain percentage
of the time accurate.  You will not be 100% accurate, but the
percentage will increase when you give more readings, and through
other disciplines such as meditation and self-hypnosis.  If you're
not telling people that you're 100% accurate, you're being honest
enough most of the time (unless the situation is critical, there
should be no need to point out you're less than 100% accurate). 
Note from the tests shown above (Richard Alan Miller) that correct
results were not shown 100% of the time.  If they were above a
"chance" showing, that was significant.  

When predicting the future, your inaccuracy could be because of a
change due to free will, not because what you saw was inaccurate.
(see "destiny and free will" elsewhere in this publication).

The key is practice, as it is with anything, practice and believe,
and your ability will gradually improve for you.



*****TYPES OF COMPANIES YOU MAY CONTRACT WITH:

1.
Honest, and hires only ethical, truly psychic people.  Cares about
the clients and psychics who work on the line.  One major priority
will be to pay the psychics, and if they are not sure of being able
to do that on time, will not continue with the business without
notifying psychics of a possible delay.  They keep avenues of
communication open, and answer nearly all questions of the
psychics.

HOW TO SPOT THE ABOVE:
They usually have careful procedures for questioning psychics being
hired.  Note too, they rely upon their own psychic ability, not
just reasoning ability and prearranged procedures.  They tell the
truth.  This is not necessarily your best earning potential in the
near future.  Expect it to be, however, in the long run.  It's
certainly good Karma* for you.

*KARMA -- cosmic law of cause and effect: ie. reap what you sow,
what goes around, comes around, etc. -- often associated with
reincarnation

2.
Starts out dealing honestly, and hires people who appear authentic
on the phone, and who satisfy clients, whatever that need might be. 
Would prefer genuine people, but if there's a shortage, will hire
others.  They will ***usually make it a priority to be sure that
clients and psychics are communicated with, and their needs met. 
However, if there are enough pressing issues in the office that
involve their overall income, they'll refer your matters to people
in the office who don't know what is going on and cannot actually
help you.

HOW TO SPOT THE ABOVE:
They want it to APPEAR they are being careful about who they hire,
so just realize that much of their screening process is a smoke
screen.  They lie, but usually when there's some gain for
themselves.  They are avoiders.  They won't tell you they don't
want to speak with you, but will receive messages for weeks without
calling back.  They are very careful about legal matters, what to
say or write if they terminate a contract, etc.  They are highly
political, play favorites among the psychics, and practically
ignore the rest.  There's very little caring about people in what
they do.  I'd describe these people as "cold."

3.
They try to be honest with clients and psychics.  They are truly
careful about who they hire.  They have a genuine desire to provide
a good service.   However, their business practices and
organizational skills are shoddy, so they're not always able to be
continue being honest.  Often enough, emotional anxiety and fear
interferes with their spiritual sense.  They will lie about
shortages or delays in pay, say they were made out of some mistake,
when actually it was to buy some time.  Sometimes they will make
honest predictions as to when they'll be able to pay you, but
circumstances will change and that will change the result.  They
write bad checks, so they'll keep you working.  Then later they
send you the money in a good check.  It's alright to work for these
companies if you have no other choice, or if the money is extra,
not required for living expenses.  Don't terminate your contract
if you find another company to work for, as these companies may
improve later, and you want to be ready to start with them if your
new company later becomes slow.

HOW TO SPOT THE ABOVE:
Usually they have big plans, and you can see only some of the plans
come to actual reality, and those often for short periods of time. 
They are well-meaning and sincere.  People make false promises to
them, and they make promises to others.  The promises only
sometimes come about.  These are "positive thinkers," without the
deeper awareness that goes beyond *********thought.  Note that they
seldom have much extra money.  Don't give up completely on these
people.  They could change, and thus their circumstances.

4.  
These people care little or nothing for anyone.  They will pay you
as long as they feel they need you.  Don't stop working until just
after payday.  Usually they want you to demonstrate some ability
to deal with clients on the phone before they hire you, not to be
accurate, but rather interesting.  People testing you don't usually
know much about astrology, tarot, or numerology.  They try to get
you to spend as many minutes as possible with each call, coaching
you about how to do it.  They usually regard their activities as
a business only, with little regard for what help may be provided
to the client.  These companies don't expect any particular
business to continue to prosper for a long time.  They expect
public interest in any service to decrease, and when they quit any
given business, they usually do so owing money to people like
yourself.  If your timing is good, you'll get all the money that's
due to you.  Don't expect any raises in pay as long as there are
plenty of people like yourself to take your place.  

HOW TO SPOT THE ABOVE:
They sometimes run a sex line.  Paychecks go out from the same
place, both to those on the sex line, and to the psychics.  Look
at the title of the company.  Could it be for something other than
psychic?  They demand much, give as little as they can, communicate
poorly, and show little respect for clients or psychics.  They are
suspicious, hide facts that don't need hiding for any ***real
reason, and lie without any ***real purpose.  People who lie as a
habit generally don't believe much of what they hear.  Notice also,
they talk much of what they think you mean, and listen little.  
Read their contract, rules and memos, as that often shows what
respect they may have for anyone.  Are there names on the memos?

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Of the above types, realize that this MUST be a generalization, and
so not every similarity will indicate that the remaining
characteristics are necessarily true.  Since others have reported
their experiences, much can, and so should be expected to change. 
This is just somewhat of a guide, and you should be expected to use
your own judgement, and particular your psychic ability to
determine your activities with these companies.  
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Here's a test for authentic people.   After you sign the contract,
see if you get a copy signed by someone in authority.  

The above test is not foolproof, however.  It usually indicates
honorable people, the one's who send you back a signed copy. 
However, those who send back a copy could, perhaps, not expect to
be bound by the agreement anyway.   They may only be particularly
honest then, but circumstances may change their actions later, and
they'll wish they hadn't sent the signed copy back to you.  Those
who don't send it back could just be careless or understaffed.

I'm not an attorney, so don't take this as legal advice.  It's my
personal feeling that when I sign a contract, and I'm not
financially bound to perform certain services, there's no need to
be concerned about anything except following certain rules while
active, and not divulge certain information while inactive or
terminated, and while inactive there's no reason to anxiously
terminate a contract.  I may determine to receive calls whenever,
and the company can only terminate the agreement with me, but not
charge me money.

One usual obligation is that you do not give your phone number,
address, or full name.  You do not request phone numbers or
addresses, and thus do not contact the client directly, and any
continued communication occurs only through the company with the
client using your extension number.  The company invests its money
to obtain these customers, and that's why I believe that agreement
is reasonable. (some companies ask you to gather names and
addresses so the company may send free gifts, mail, and
publications to them)

There may be variations in the agreements proposed and accepted,
from what I've written here.  I'm mostly informing you of the
usual.  As an example, for greater compensation, and requiring more
responsibility from you, you may be offered higher risks.

At this writing, the industry is in a state of flux -- nearly
chaos.  Changes have come about that have put it in a whirlwind,
from rules of outside agencies, to new policies about what types
of phone bills are enforceable for payment: certain numbers of
minutes, repeated calls or not.  Some companies require that you
speak no more than 15 minutes per call, others up to 45 minutes -
- not necessary 2 years ago.  Much of this change will necessitate
new types of contracts, so if you see something different than what
you read about here, realize it's may be necessary to keep a
company afloat.


*****
REQUIREMENTS IN COMMITMENT:


1.
There are companies continue to hire people as long as calls are
being missed, even for just a half-hour during a 24 hour period. 
These are unregulated companies.  They don't use management, just
overkill.  This results in people waiting for hours to receive one
call, because new people were hired to cover a certain half-hour,
and are on all the time.  You can log on or off whenever you want. 

2.
Some companies require a certain minimum number of hours monitoring
the line, usually 15 to 20 each week.  They'll let you go if you
go too many weeks without being on during that minimum, with or
without a warning.  They usually inform you of the policy when
you're hired.  You may request a leave of absence.

3.
Other companies require people to work the hours that are critical,
the one's they had been missing calls with.  They often keep people
on who do fill those hours, and let people go who don't.  They
won't contact you right away if you miss a day, and you may even
miss many days without ever hearing from them, and continue
working.  They usually regulate the amount of people on, so that
a certain minimum number of calls per hour is received by those
remaining on the line.

4.
Still others have strict rules, that you must work certain hours
each work day -- usually a minimum of 6 hours.  They'll contact you
right away if you miss a day or are late.  This may sound harsh,
but when you go to work for someone, don't you have to be there a
certain number of days?  Realize that when you work for one of
these companies, they're not hiring on an overkill basis.  You will
have enough calls to make a living, even more certainly than the
other examples above show, even those that require you to work the
critical hours.

The greater the responsibility, the greater the reward in
stability.

If you MUST work with complete confidence, that you will probably
get paid on time, my advice is to stick with those who are
established with 1/2 hour commercials on TV that are seen
nationally, a company that's had the money to produce these ads for
at least a year.  This may not be foolproof, however.  Also, those
companies may be too difficult to get on with. 

Whether you are paid on time, or going to get paid at all are
questions that come up for psychics from time to time.  If there's
a certain degree of anxiety over the question, because a psychic
is short of cash, one is not always able to use psychic ability to
know whether or when they will get paid.  They may know for some
client, but not for themselves.

When you get hired, realize that if it doesn't work out, and the
contract does not obligate you financially, you can get hired by
another company and still be with the first one.  So, there's no
need to be concerned about the "wrong" company.  I've never known
of a company that required they be the exclusive company you work
with.

Some hire only after they receive a contract in the mail, others
after a conversation and test reading over the phone, while they
await a contract from you in the mail.

The one's that mostly advertise on TV usually have much of their
business between Midnight and 4 am Eastern Standard Time, and are
nearly dead from 6 pm to Midnight.  The one's that advertise in
printed publications have most of their business between 6 pm and
Midnight Eastern Standard Time.  If you can get on two companies,
for obvious reasons try hardest for one of each of the above. 

Psychic Discoveries and PPCN have both TV and printed publication
emphasis.  Telephone Consultant Services has an emphasis on printed
advertising, and Vision Network has its emphasis on TV ads.

Contact Lorraine Gouger at Vision Network, and try to either get
on with them before they start up again, or contract with them
beforehand without expecting to get on their line to receive calls
until they are active.  

I'm not sure how they will handle it, but they will probably need
people.

There are "back-up" companies.  The fact that such companies exist,
and which ones they are, is obtainable from people who call 900
lines, when the psychic answers with "Psychic Line" (or some
similar meaning) instead of the name of a company.  When the caller
questions whether it's a certain company they saw advertised on TV,
they are told by the Psychic that they answer for other companies. 
That's usually because the company the caller intended to reach no
longer had its people working in the phone room during those hours,
or if it was a national network with psychics all over the country,
there were not enough people on the line to answer all the calls
at that particular time.  If you work for one of these, (and they
will probably tell you that's what they do) expect extreme
fluctuations in your volume of calls received.


*****NATURAL DISASTERS -- EARTHQUAKES, ETC.
Computers control the operation, and they are often many miles away
from the actual company location.  If you are connected with a
company that has some natural disaster where its home office is
located, such as a flood or earthquake, the operation of the line
will probably continue normally because the ads are set to run as
usual, probably in areas outside of the disaster area.  The
computer that you access via the 800 number or regular line is
usually also accessed via remote to enter new people on the line,
change the daily message, find out the minutes accumulated, etc. 
In the event of some disaster, what you will be looking for is that
the daily message gets changed and someone reports that they are
available to access the minutes on the computer and do payroll. 
This can be from another location than the original office, since
the computer is accessed via phone from anywhere.

COMPLAINTS:
A psychic can get complaints to the company because a client
thought they had a cold, when it was a sudden attack of alergy just
when that client called.  Another person can complain because the
psychic sounded like he or she was not alert.  Some people complain
because they themselves exhibit great exuberance, and a normal
sounding voice will be, to them, like someone has no enthusiasm,
or just woke up.  In some companies, a client will complain to a
temporary employee about someone who sounded "sleepy."  Then the
temp will "test" the psyhic, and find that the psychic sounded
"sleepy."  The temp doesn't know about trance-like states, and so
will report another "validated" complaint.  This will be passed to
someone in authority who will sign some letter he or she knows
nothing about, and the psychic will be fired.  This happens, so
hopefully you'll find a company that has people who know something
about psychic phenomena.  Some companies will fire a psychic with
2 or more complaints automatically.  Others will test the psychic
to see if the same problem occurs when they are called by someone
in the office; often enough, those testing have little or no
ability to know if ***any problem exists, and they see what they
are looking for.  Other companies, with perceptive people running
them, will realize that most complaints are ridiculous, and will
try to know of those that have merit.  With companies that have
aware people in charge, most often, the psychics will not even be
contacted for most complaints when the company understands that
most complaints have no merit.  The companies that have know-
nothings will fire a person without even calling them on the phone. 
These are what I describe, elsewhere in this book, as "COLD."

*****YOUR SECOND LINE:
Don't give the number to ANYONE.  If you give the number out, no
matter what you say about that number, you're leaving yourself open
to trouble from the 900 line company due to busy signals on the
line, people calling to test you as a psychic, and who knows what
else.

Don't call any local numbers on that line.  If you call a local
number, and someone has caller ID, they may note that number and
call you back.  With long distance, caller ID generally doesn't
show the number.

*67 dialed before the number generally blocks your phone number to
the people you call, but it may not work in all areas of the
country.

If anyone knows the number, other than the psychic line companies,
change it. 

             HOW TO ORDER YOUR EXTRA PHONE LINE:
                
                   Get a number that has

1. NEVER been used by anyone else
2. Is HIGH up in number, and far away in number from your regular
   line.  It should be at least 1000 up from the nearest working
   number.

Telephone solicitors (Telemarketers) call numbers in numerical
sequence.  They note the numbers that are not in service.  They
continue calling in numerical sequence until they reach a point
where they are finding many nonworking numbers, and then they
discontinue calling any higher in number.

Crank callers also call people in sequence, and they note where
large blocks of numbers have "not in service" from the recording. 
They usually do not try hundreds of numbers higher after that.  So,
if you can get up there over 1000 above the present highest number,
you'll be in good shape.

If your number was used by anyone within years, you'll still get
calls from people asking for them occasionally.  On your regular
line, this is a problem that will go away eventually, but on the
one you dedicate to psychic work, you cannot afford to wait until
"eventually."

If someone calls you, and your answer indicates you're on a psychic
line, they may call you for free readings in the future.

If a phone solicitor or someone calling you for a wrong number
calls you, and the psychic line computer records a busy signal,
you could be logged off automatically and reprimanded, or fired by
the company if it happens too often.

There are ways of saving money for installation of new lines.
Much depends upon where existing extra wire already is,
and whether you are handy with Radio Shack bought wire, or
someone you know is.

The second line phone should have NO call waiting, call forwarding,
or any extra feature, and NO answering device connected to it.



*****WHAT'S EXCELLENT, GOOD BUSINESS, NOT SO GOOD, AND BAD?

NOTE:
This does not mean you monitor for 24 hours at a time.  One day be
available during the hours you slept, let's say, days earlier. 
Then make an average.


A+ - UNUSUAL
Average over a 24 hour period, 48 or more calls.  This doesn't
usually last more than 2 or 3 months with most companies.  They
either hire too many  people because they are missing calls, or
their advertising results drift off.  At other times, there are too
many charge-backs -- people who don't pay the 900 line charges, so
they cease advertising.

A - EXCELLENT:
Average over a 24 hour period, 36 or more calls.  You may get one
call immediately after another for 2 hours, then wait more than an
hour for each call later.

B - GOOD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 24 calls

C - NOT SO GOOD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 18 calls

D - BAD:
Average over a 24 hour period, 12 calls or less


DO NOT PAY ANY ATTENTION TO MINUTES PER DAY OF OTHERS, WHETHER
AVERAGE OF MANY PEOPLE, OR OF SOME PARTICULAR PERSON, NOT EVEN YOUR
OWN -- WHEN YOU ARE CONSIDERING THE SUFFICIENCY OF A COMPANY.

Your average minutes per call will vary.


WHAT TO SAY WHEN YOU ANSWER:
"Hello, this is (company name) extension (extension number).  My
name is (your first name).  How may I help you?"

"Hello, this is the psychic line.  My name is (your first name). 
Do you want a general reading, or do you have specific questions?"

"Hello, this is (company name) extension (extension number).  My
name is (your first name)  What area of your life do you want me
to focus on?"  

Of the above examples, you many pick one or more combinations that
suit you and the company's rules.


*****MAKING IT LONGER, ON AVERAGE, UP TO 10 MINUTES PER CALL:

Check your average each day and chart it.  Put the chart on the
wall.  Also, keep a diary of your emotional history and your
between-call activities.  Check it each day and note your
activities and attitudes.

You will probably discover a variation in minutes per call
correlates with certain activities.  One example could be that you
were repeatedly engrossed in a phone conversation with someone, on
the other phone, and then interrupted to answer the psychic line. 
Note that if you were anxious to get back off the line, that shows
in your voice!  Clients say "goodbye" sooner. 

The 10 minute average is a requirement for nearly all companies. 
They won't usually tell you this when they let you go.  If they
lay you off for that, they won't generally tell you why.  The
reason they cannot tell you is that there's been some bad publicity
about 900 psychic lines.  It is a policy of ********some companies
to get people to practically coerce clients to stay on the line -
- even longer than 10 minutes.  I'm saying your average should
gradually increase to 10 minutes, but not by anything closely
resembling coercion.  Some write memos regarding the 10 minute
average, print it in their manuals, or whatever.  It's a
universally agreed figure.  It doesn't mean that you WILL
necessarily be deactivated if you don't meet the figure, but when
the company is ready to shed people to make room for more minutes
for their people, you *****may be one of the first to go if your
average per call is less than 10 minutes.

Don't think of $3.95 per minute -- how hard it is for you to pay
it.  Think first of all that no matter what price it is, you have
a service that's more than worth it.  Then, remember that many
people who call can easily afford it.  Don't have it in your mind,
even though unconsciously, that the other person needs to get off
the phone right away because they are paying so much.  If it's in
your mind, somehow recondition that mind so you can change your
attitude and your income by producing a 10 minutes per call
average.

There are additional methods of increasing your average minutes per
call.  These are shown in other parts of this material, mainly
having to do with avoiding certain distractions, types of
activities to indulge in between calls, and those to avoid.



INDUSTRY TRENDS:

I predict integration.  With the use of back-up companies, I see
a trend towards mutual cooperation.  Soon you'll see more buy-outs
and mergers.  This will stabilize the industry, and make it more
inviting to clients who call these numbers.  Right now, it's hard
for them to know what to expect.  Psychics they'd been calling
suddenly become unavailable when a particular company's business
slows, and it's sometimes difficult to find other psychics who are
as adept, or who will counsel them as well, one's they'd gotten to
know so well.

Then there will be outstanding leaders in the industry, those who
have the truly adept psychics, and are widely known for that. 
You'll spot them by their heart-felt caring for both the psychics
and the clients.  The companies will be truly profitable, and
consistently so for the psychics, so the best psychics will remain
with those companies.  

It will take some time to see this completed, but it will come
about, and the process beginning is now evident.




TYPES OF PEOPLE WHO CALL 900
PSYCHIC LINES, AND HOW TO HANDLE 
THEM:


CHEATING:
You'll get people asking you if their wife or husband is cheating
on them.  If you say "yes," someone might get murdered.  Do you
want to take the chance of having that on your head?  Do you have
a sense of what karma is about?  It's probably not entirely up to
you though, since many company's you work with don't want you doing
anything to cause damage to people. 

DEATH:
When will I die?  When will my husband die?  My husband is dying
of cancer, when will it be over? (She may really mean, when will
she collect the insurance.)  Do you know the answer?  Well, if you
think you do, best not touch this one.

DISEASE:
How long will this disease last?  Will I die from it?  Don't you
just love questions like that?  What does their doctor say?

HEALTH:
I don't, and you should not give medical advice.  However, if you
feel a certain TYPE licensed physician, such as a holistic
practitioner, would be better, tell them.  I generally refer them
to their nearest metaphysical book store, where there are usually
business cards or fliers on a bulletin board.  NEW AGE JOURNAL has
a listing of holistic practitioners throughout the US.  Their phone
number is (617) 787-2005.

DIVORCE:
He's the one to blame in this one.  Don't you agree?  Better not
touch that one either, at least not to the point where you find
fault.

YOU'RE BEING SO GENERAL:
There are some things you can say that apply to nearly any person,
such as, "You're having some difficult times with the man of your
life."  Well, nearly everyone is.  You could say, you're having a
particularly hard time this year with your spouse," and the client
may say (because they are looking for this to happen) "You're being
so General."  The fact that it's particularly hard that year,
compared to the previous year will be ignored if they are looking
for you to be "general."  You could point out how that what seems
to apply to nearly everyone, could in this case apply *********more
to this person.

VAMPIRES:
They will ask you the same question of you over and over.  If you
tell them something, they will seem to have forgotten it.  When you
give an account of their lives, and include some detail about what
they will be doing, being very specific, they will ask you a
question that you just told them about.  It seems they never listen
to answers, only ask questions.  There will be huge pauses after
you answer.  They call repeatedly asking each psychic the same
questions until the phone company blocks them from making 900 or
800 calls.  They tell you the saddest accounts of their lives, and
they want you to tell them how wrong people have been to them.  It
seems like forever until they finally say "goodbye" to you, or you
terminate the call.  

Remember, either through habit each time you answer the calls, or
through conscious intent for each call, you connect with these
people psychically -- emotionally, which can make you especially
vulnerable to them draining you.  Either tune them out so you hear
words and are not paying any attention to the vibrations, or find
ways to just connect without the emotion, or use some shielding
technique before you come on-line.  Whatever works for you, use it.

If you get a few of these in a row, you will feel so drained you
will have to rest.  Be assertive with these people.  Don't create
arguments, but terminate the call gracefully.  Remember, you
usually cannot ***win arguments in this business.

TALK AND DON'T LISTEN:
They interrupt you repeatedly.  They'll ask questions, then
interrupt you before you complete a sentence.  This, also, is
usually not a productive type communication.

LONELY:
They don't want psychic advice, just a friend to tell their
troubles to.  They usually have much to say, and just want someone
to listen and show they care -- which is fine to do.  If you get
involved in your own subject interests, they will not stay
interested, and will say "goodbye."   They want to ***talk more
than anything, so let them.  They usually don't ask for any advice,
and they don't want a psychic, just a friend, so you can safely
tune them out, and just listen to the words.

FANATIC:
They have some religious trip for you, usually to tell you the
devil has you up to this psychic stuff.  Don't argue with them. 
Help them without selling yourself out or fighting them.

SO-CALLED SKEPTIC:
They think there's no such thing as psychic ability in anyone. 
They will attempt to prove it with you.  Oh, what fun you'll have! 
The problem with these types who are NOT "skeptical" is that no
matter what proof you have, they will rationalize it away.  That's
OK, it's their money, and if that's what they want to spend it on,
go to it.  It won't be frustrating to you if you understand their
game, which often enough even they don't know.  They THINK they are
"skeptical," and "open minded," trying to find out if psychic
phenomena exists.  Actually they are just trying to act out their
foregone conclusion.  There are actual skeptical people, who are
open minded, but the "so-called skeptic" is what I'm referring to
here.  They are creating what they expect.

TELL ME WHAT TO DO:
They want to know what their decision should be.  That means they
want you to take on their KARMA.  Do you want that?  Whatever you
tell them and they do, even if you or the company never hears from
them again, you will be living their life and sharing that
responsibility.  Don't fall into that trap.  Tell them the options,
the probabilities, and let them decide.  There's some advice you
can give, but not EVERYTHING.  You'll have to decide with each
particular case when you might be giving TOO MUCH advice.

WHAT IS MY DESTINY?:
Will I do this, or will I do that.  Will he do this, or will he do
that?  Some people calling the line think humanity is composed of
robots.  There is destiny, and there is free-will:  

*****                    Destiny vs.
                         free-will

     When you've asked yourself or someone else such as a
     psychic or psychic astrologer the question, "What will
     happen in my future," what did that mean to you?

     Will I find the right mate?
     Am I going to get a good job?
     Will I be rich?
     Will I be lucky?
     When will it happen?

     And, for World Events, you've wanted to know if your
     country would win a certain war, who would get elected,
     and so on.  

     Getting rich, or finding a wonderful person to marry,
     happens because of both destiny and free-will.

     Psychics, astrologers, tarot readers, and you can
     discover your own destiny, but destiny is probability,
     not fact.  The beliefs generated by your free-will, along
     with your thoughts and actions, all interweave with
     destiny to bring about actual events.

     What is luck?  It has different meanings, depending upon
     the person using the word.  To some it is a fixed thing,
     outside themselves, that makes them win the lottery, or
     brings them a hot love affair.  To others, it's something
     they have some control of. 
 
     Probabilities have varying degrees of intensity.

     Mount Everest is large, and the probability of its
     continued existence in the same position to at least the
     year 2010 is high. Your probability of physical
     continuation to 2010 is not so high, no matter what your
     present age or health.

     One of Earth's wisest men, Jesus Christ, said that if you
     believed that a mountain would be moved from one spot to
     another, it would move.

     A large mountain has a destiny to stand still.  A person
     looking at it has a destiny to see it not move from one
     spot, by observation (effect) and by belief (cause).  Yet
     the mountain can be moved, no matter what the probability
     is otherwise, if the belief is of greater intensity than
     the original probability of it standing still. 

     If you follow reincarnation's beliefs, you may say that
     you brought yourself to certain parents, to whatever
     country you were born, by your beliefs.

     Your destiny is interwoven with that of others, and as
     you continue to follow destiny's patterns, you may meet
     certain important people in your life.  Then, too, you
     may win the lottery. 

     Here's an example of how destiny works with free-will:

     A high probability future like a marriage to a certain
     person you haven't yet met is a destiny.  Your beliefs
     may change that event, but it's not likely.  Another
     lesser intensity probability may be that life with that
     person will be filled with conflict.  Your free-will may
     help to change the conflict to that of harmony, though
     it had not prevented your meeting and attraction.

     Our major world's events up to about this time, near the
     year 2000, (The beginning of the Age of Aquarius) were
     set thousands of years ago.  Now we need present day
     prophets for the time ahead because this is a New Age of
     Enlightenment.  We're creating more of our own destiny,
     rather than so many of the events known thousands of
     years ago.  
 
     The basic application of this idea, that we're creating
     more of our world events now, when applied to your
     individual life, can be helpful.  The more enlightened
     you are about how your consciousness works, the greater
     is your power to change your life's destiny through your
     beliefs.

     We need to know our future, see the road map ahead, and
     find the main highways (destinies) that belong to our
     unique individual selves or our planet.  Then, with the
     use of that knowledge, we may plan and modify with
     free-will our paths (the side roads) through life
     beforehand to give our journey the freedom, enlighten-
     ment, and happiness that is our birthright.

CHRONIC CALLERS:
There are "chronic" callers.  They call until the phone company
stops them, and they call many, many times.  Often they ask the
same questions of many psychics on your's and other lines.  If you
get one of these people who you know could not possibly pay the
bill, it would not be wise to stay on the line with them for very
long.

GAY:
You talk of these people's affairs with the same respect you'ld
give a heterosexual relationship.

DRUNK:
I've never been able to help anyone who was drunk.  The only thing
they get is some sort of entertainment.  Often enough, they do most
of the talking.  If you try to say much other than "yes," or "no,"
they get offended.  I remember back when it was easier for a
company to collect 900 number money, when such could go on.  One
went on giving a psychic readings, to show what a great psychic he
was, until he was reminded that he'd been on for 20 minutes, and
it would cost him about $80 so far.  He said "good-bye right away. 
Usually they ramble on, forgetting completely what they are paying
per minute.  Often enough, they won't remember it when the bill
comes, and think it's some mistake.  Remember, even when they wind
up paying the bill, there's a call from the phone company or
holding company to the 900 line company, then a call to the psychic
asking him or her to look at a log to get a birth date and first
name for a certain time, then contact again with the phone company,
and all of this taking up a lot of company time and long distance
calls.  Remember, you are not on the line JUST to add on talk
minutes.  You will get paid, but there's more to this work than
getting paid.  You have to consider all the people involved,
especially the company you are working with.  It seems that a lot
of the drunks want to tell of how psychic they are.  Some are
really more psychic than most. One thing I've noticed is that I
find it hard to tune into their lives, to some extent because they
seem to want to talk non-stop.  There's also the fact that they are
such braggarts when they're drunk.  Then again, with clouded
thinking on their part, that's a factor in not being able to tune
into them.

HEAD IN THE CLOUDS:
A psychic reports being on with a woman for about 15 minutes when
she said she was in a cold, dark, house because neither the
electric or gas bill were paid.  The psychic had to wonder why she
was paying between $3. and $4. per minute telling me about her
stingy relatives.  She said she'd had some special deal with a long
distance carrier, and that time of the night she was getting the
best rates (on a 900 number?).  I had to tell her what was going
on and get her off the line after I'd given her the best advice I
could in that last minute.

TESTING:
Some people call and ask the same question of many psychics, and
the only thing they are trying to do is attempt a test for
accuracy.  If there's a slight variation, they call it a
contradiction, and they tell you how different you were from the
last one they'd tested.  You can point out that the difference was
not a contradiction, but that one psychic saw it from a different
perspective.  They're just creating what they expect to find.
I've had people ask me to tell me what the item is that they lost,
before they would be willing to stay on and tell them where it was
lost. (companies will give you a list of extension numbers of those
who handle such things as lost items).  I've had people say, "tell
me what you can in 1 minute, because that's all the time I'll be
on unless you show me how good you are."

MUFFLED OR VERY LOW:
You'll get people who sound muffled, and it's very hard to
understand what they are saying.  This can be because of their
cheap phone, a microphone that doesn't work properly anymore, the
phone system of the company you work with, because they are too
close to their microphone, or whatever.  Then too, the voice may
come in unusually low, and a headset with volume control would help
you in that case.

I HATE THE WORLD, AND ESPECIALLY ALL YOU PSYCHICS:
"Why don't you go get a job at McDonalds?"  "None of you people are
psychic." "You people don't know what you're talking about."  Most
of the time, these people are drunk or on drugs, and they often
enough say these things before you've had a chance to utter a word. 
Don't argue with them.  If you're not in a state of mind where you
do not react with hostility (verbally or silently) you should have
meditated to reach it BEFORE you came on line.  You're not
obligated to take any abuse from them, either.

WHO'S SPEAKS NEXT?:
People will call you, you'll answer with a few words like the name
of your company and the extension number, and they'll start
talking, asking you questions, and talking again, wondering if
you'll ever say a word.  All the time, you've been waiting for them
to stop talking for a fraction of a second.  They are lacking some
sense of timing.  Sometimes, after trying to get you to answer (to
their way of seeing it) they will actually pause after "hello,"
"hello," "hello," in rapid succession; I usually respond with, "I'm
still here."  I can nearly guarantee you that you won't understand
each other when you continue.  These people are usually either on
drugs or otherwise unbalanced.

JUST SAY GOOD THINGS:
Some people call just to hear good news like, "Yes, he loves you,"
or, "you'll win the lottery tomorrow."  If you see anything
negative in answer to their questions, they will be disappointed
in you.  They want to feel good now, no matter what happens later. 
Tell them what you feel is true, and don't worry about pleasing
them.  However, with every negative thing you say, always give them
a positive.  If someone doesn't care for them, tell them someone
else will be coming soon if it's true.  If they won't win the
lottery, tell them of some business opportunity that will come, if
it's true.  If some certain thing is not going to happen, you can
tell them how we create our own destiny, and that opportunity
exists for everyone.
     
HURRY UP:
One second of silence in tuning into someone, and they're on edge. 
These people often waste time testing you, when they could get to
the point and get some quick, accurate answers.  It's a complete
contradiction.  I tell them that if they ask specific questions,
we'll save their time and money that way.  That usually gets them
on track.

SEMI-LITERATE:
You should be able to spot these people by the way they speak when
giving their name and birthdate.  Their pronounciation and diction
will be off.  If you note what they sound like, and compare it to
the times they didn't understand what you were saying, you'll learn
quickly to spot them.  Use your normal conversational vocabulary
when speaking with people, unless they show that they need
especially simple terms -- either by what they sound like when they
first talk with you, or that they don't seem to understand you. 
Don't use big words, psychological terms, or anything about a
"subconscious" mind, "metaphysics," or whatever.  They won't know
what you're talking about, and may even be offended.  To them,
everything is simple.  Use simple words like "change," rather than
"transition."  If you try to translate "subconscious motives" to
"the real reasons, that he doesn't really know of," it won't help
because to these people such things don't exist, and at $3. or $4.
per minute it's usually not worthwhile to them for you to begin
educating them.  As an example, rather than "upset with you," use
"mad at you," even though "mad" is not the literally correct word. 
I've had people ask me what "vulnerable" means.

SEXY SADIE:
She isn't really interested in your psychic ability, but she wants
to know where you live, to see if you'll fly out to where she is.

SEXY MAX:
He doesn't want a psychic, but think's this is a 900 sex line. 
You're not obligated to continue with such discussion.

DOES HE REALLY LOVE ME?:
Well, what is love to you?  Does he really have passion for me? 
Does he really care what the hell happens to me, how I feel,
whether I feel good?  Does he find me more stimulating than anyone
else he knows?   To some, getting beaten is a sign that the man
really loves her.  To many people, love is a "yes" or "no" thing,
with no qualifications.  I wouldn't try a discussion with them
about this unless you're sure that's what they want.  Too often,
trying to define things gets them to say "bye," very fast.  Can you
sense that according to what they think love is, yes, he does, or
no he doesn't, then give that answer with, "according to how you
feel that love is," or just "yes" or "no," if that feels right to
you.

ENGLISH, WHAT'S THAT?:
Just get a 1st grade reader, and stick with words like, "Jane ran
after Spot."  Speak the words slowly and be patient.
If you detect a foreign accent, usually you'll find it necessary
to use simple words, so they don't keep saying "what."  Don't use
words like "integrate," rather say "bringing the two together," as
one example.  When they say "what," before you can finish a
sentence, because they don't understand a certain word, can
distract you to the point that a good reading is nearly impossible.

SAY WHAT?
"Say What?" is the one who find's anything outside of their
religious upbringing to be absolutely absurd.  Don't get into past
lives, KARMA, or anything like that with these people.  Try
translating to their terms.  If they're into the Western Bible and
Jesus, "As ye sow, so shall ye reap," can be substituted for KARMA. 
Speak their language without selling yourself out.  If you persist
with your own language, they'll be gone in no time.

TRICKSTER:
Some are not the "testing" type, but rather the "trickster."  If
they were born rich and haven't had a job in their entire life,
they'll ask you about the tough time they are having on their job. 
They may be at a party, with a friend giggling on the other phone
with the mouth-piece covered.  The logical outcome of this is that
the psychic will not utilize his or her psychic ability to
ascertain the original so-called "fact" presented, that they are
engaged in some sort of employment.  Normally, this is perceived
as "evident fact," and differentiated from "psychic perception" in
the logical mind of the psychic.  Since there's no "psychic
perception" of that "evident fact," the entire "information" will
often register as confusion, followed by "I'm not getting anything
on the "tough time you're having on the job."  If the psychic is
not *looking* for tricksters, they often will not perceive it about
the person calling.  This is a perfect example of the person
calling, creating what they feel should be the outcome.

If you are a person who instinctively trusts people, and someone
lies to you, you'll automatically assume it's true.  If they try
trick questions through deceit, and you fail their test, that
doesn't prove you're not psychic, only that you are not suspicious,
instinctively, in nature.  


I'M REALLY OVER 18:
"Hi, my birth date is Jan. 15, 1965, but don't worry if I sound
like I'm only 8.  Say, is my mom going to buy that candy I want at
the store?"





SPY:
"What is my husband doing right now?" "What is he thinking about?" 
"What did my boss talk about at that last meeting?"  Well, do you
feel like being a spy for people?

REMOTE CONTROL:
"Tell me about my aunt Joan.  Haven't seen her in years.  I spoke
with her last week on the phone.  Will she marry that guy, Joe?" 
If you feel you know what you're talking about, go ahead.  It's
generally not as easy to tune into someone other than the person
you're talking with.  The closer the person is related, and the
more the client is affected by that person, the easier it is.

Usually, in my experience, I can know somewhat about one or more
of the people they are talking about.  Then, when they start with
one after the other, I just tell them that I cannot continue
knowing about so many people who are so remote from the actual
person who called.

LOTTERY:
"What are some good numbers?"  Ask them if they want six 2 digit
numbers, and how high the numbers are in their state.  Some only
want a 3 digit number.  Then, tell them their winning number.  If
you're a numerologist, use that ability.  If you have some other
way of knowing, use that.  If you're really good at this, play
yourself and you'll have so much money you can just get on the line
for no other purpose than to help people.  Better yet, hopefully
you'll win at least 50 million and you can start your own really
HIGH PROFILE 900 number line.  Be sure to contact me, because
you'll need me as a partner.  This time, we'll get Shirley MacLaine
as a host.  She'd do better than Dionne Warwick, Debbie Reynolds,
Eric Estrada, and Jackie Stallone all combined on one TV ad.  And,
as for a "psychic to the stars," and "the ORIGINAL psychic to the
stars," and perhaps some "REALLY FIRST" psychic to the REAL stars,
or whatever, SHIRLEY MACLAINE would put them all to dust, being no
psychic to any stars.  Why?  Well, she's not only a STAR, but the
only one that's so well known for her metaphysical awareness, from
her books, talk show interviews, the movie, OUT ON A LIMB, etc.

SUICIDE:
If someone talks about committing suicide, as a psychic you can
probably help him or her more than someone on an 800 line.  If you
followed my instructions as to what to say to the potential
suicide, you would be no better than those who are on 800 lines. 
Whatever you do say is up to you, and it should vary according to
the person you're talking to.  However, what you have to say should
not take more than a certain number of minutes, not only because
of rules of many companies to keep the time down, but because there
just isn't that much to say.  If they don't let you get a word in
during those minutes, then they are doing that to themselves.  Some
companies will tell you not to attempt to help them, since if you
fail, both you and the company may be open to litigation.  That's
something to consider.  I won't advise you here, however.  After
a few minutes you should give him or her this number: 800-333-5580
or 800-333-4444 suicide hotlines.  Then say "good-bye" and get off
the line.

HE HITS ME:
I've known people to call 800 numbers about this subject, and they
tell me the same responses come each time.  The official line is
that if he hits you, he'll do it again, so you must leave him. 
Statistically, that's a correct assumption.  The 800 number people
deal with psychological profiles.  You're a psychic, right?  Well,
what about this particular circumstance?  Does IT fit the
statistical norm?  Maybe the guy never had that typical upbringing,
and is going through some temporary problem.  That's not a high
probability, but you should try to help people before passing them
off to the 800 numbers.

TESTING FROM THE COMPANY:
Someone from your company will call and you'll give a reading. 
This can be productive, or it can be a problem, depending upon the
person who makes and receives the call.


These types are not "BAD," just not the ideal or perfect client to
many psychic's point of view.  Whatever a paying client's "trip,"
they are paying for it, and you're there to earn money.  You should
understand them, and not be taken by surprise.  That's why I've
listed them.  Actually, a lot of the games or shortcomings can be
fun for you, and need not be so frustrating once you're used to
them.

There's no need to be offended by these people.  Just stay calm and
aware.  Make the most of the situation, but don't take advantage
of anyone.

When I first started on a 900 line, if a TV ad ran in a certain
city, I'd get one after another of some of the most frustrating
types listed above.  I didn't readily have other psychics to
counsel with, and I became discouraged to the point of going off
while it was busy, and wondered if I really wanted to continue the
next night.

At some point, you may start seeing more of the game players and
other type people, and because you've read this, you'll be ready
for them.

You should have people readily available to talk with in the
company you work with to discuss problems.  Remember, with some
experience and the right perspective, the above described people
will no longer be such a problem to you after awhile.

REAL PEOPLE WITH NO GAMES:
Now, this is what you're waiting for, what makes it all worthwhile. 
You'll still get some of the above, but most of the time I've
enjoyed the "real people."  They are open, aware, and ready to
benefit from your wisdom, compassion, communication skills, and
psychic ability.  With these people who are not trying to get you
to prove something, the energy flows freely.  You'll be doing
things with them and for them that will even surprise you.  If only
the other types knew how they could benefit if they'd just get off
their "trips."  With the free flow of energy you'll find yourself
knowing, seeing, and hearing the answers, and it all happens so
much more readily.  It's not that you cannot help people who have
the games to play, but it's a lot easier without them, so they
benefit more, and they get more for each minute they are on with
you.  When people were not playing games, I've been able to tell
them things I had no way of knowing except with my psychic ability. 
The thing is, I did it without the intention of showing what I
knew.  For me, it works best that way.  

The type of people you get depends, to a great extent, upon the
type of commercial.  If it's sensationalism, then you'll find
people looking for the very BEST psychics, those who know
EVERYTHING.  Then you'll run into hard times because there just
aren't enough people to go around of that caliber for 25 to 50
cents per minute.  The people will be disappointed in you.

I've seen examples on 1/2 hour infomercials of people finding a
place for someone to work by clairvoyantly visualizing a certain
street that a person should walk to find the job available.

This kind of advertising gets a lot of people calling, but it
doesn't keep them, because the deliverance on such ability is not
that consistent even with a certain especially good psychic, let
alone a higher number of people who are willing to earn just 25 to
50 cents per minute.

There are unusually adept psychics on psychic lines, those who earn
much more than 25 to 50 cents per minute.  They don't spend a lot
of time on a psychic line, and they have their reasons, some quite
altruistic, to be on.  I suspect that certain companies pay they
much more than the usual 25 to 50 cents per minute.



Attitudes about psychic lines have changed considerably over the
past few years from 1991 to 1994.  Now people have mellowed out
considerably, and have adjusted to the fact that the sensational
stuff just isn't real too often.  They settle, more often, for the
plain ordinary advertising, without all the sensational stuff.

I've known how many children a person had right away when they
brought up the subject of their children, and I've accurately
described each of them FOR A USEFUL PURPOSE when the client gave
their names.  However, when someone says, "how many children do I
have?," I don't always care or know.  A "show-off" personality in
a psychic, or one who really likes such challenges, may react
differently than me, giving correct answers, and that's ok too.  

Now, psyhic companies are mostly getting the "real" people, and
that has a lot to do with the type ads, and where they're placed. 
If we start seeing more of the game players and other type people,
you'll be ready for them because you've read this.

There's no need to be offended by people who play games or have
the problems shown here.  Just stay calm and aware.  Make the most
of the situation, but don't take advantage of anyone.  There's
always a way of taking any obstacle and turning it into an
opportunity.  It has to do with *********your way of looking at the
situation, not them or the circumstances.  If you feel like a
victim, then you'll be one.  If you take responsibility for that
which comes up in your reality, including all the outside
circumstances, you'll be able to turn each situation into a
positive experience for yourself and the client.

You could look at why people test you.  They've done it more after
unfavorable publicity on TV, and they do not always know which
companies are hiring people who are "for real."  They want to see
if you're OK before they continue to spend more minutes and money. 
When you see it from their perspective, you probably won't have
negative feelings about it.

WHERE THEY'VE BEEN, THE OUTRIGHT *****CON-GAMES:
There's been unfavorable publicity on TV about psychic lines. 
There have been really inept so-called "psychics" answering after
sensationalized ads on TV.  And, as if that exposure of the general
public wasn't enough, with out-right *****FRAUD, people on psychic
lines have told the clients that there was a minimum number of
minutes they would have to pay for, whether they stayed on or not. 
They have told people to call their extension again at certain
intervals to remove some spell that had been cast on them.  Outside
of the 900 phone business, in-person readers have received huge
sums of money to supposedly remove spells (bad things will continue
to happen to you type spells).  There was an UNSOLVED MYSTERIES TV
documentary shown about one person who had received millions of
dollars doing that.  Some psychic lines will ask you people to
agree, in writing, not to say anything about spells, but that's
only to protect themselves legally.  When they listen to the
conversations, they are happy to be able to get all the repeat
business for certain minimum numbers of minutes, as acts of
extortion.

This is either what a number of people have personally experienced,
heard of others experience, or read and heard of through the media
or books.  You may be able to help these people, and gain some
confidence in your company and/or yourself.

Some have called me asking about spells that were supposedly cast
on them.  When appropriate, I tell them there have been no spells
cast, and that they can remove the curse of their own belief in
such a spell -- which itself can bring the loss of a job,
separation of a spouse, etc.  There are many methods for such self-
help.  There's ritual, self-hypnosis, and meditation.  The main
thing one has to help the client understand is that they have much
DIVINE power in their own mind's and hearts, which they were born
with, and they've only forgotten.

For the above, and many other self-help recommendations, I refer
people to either or both THE HIGHER SELF (cassette tapes by Deepak
Chopra) 800-525-9000, a catalog of tapes and books sent free from
Valley of the Sun Publishing 818-889-1575.





*****GENERAL TIPS FOR WORKING THE
LINES:


KNOWING WHAT DO THESE COMPANIES WANT 
is the key to getting hired, increasing your pay per talk-minute,
and staying on: 

They want repeat business more than anything.  They spend enormous
amounts of money doing TV ads, and they want the people on the line
who bring them repeat business, so they don't have to continue to
depend upon that to bring in business.

EARN MORE 
Conditions change, so does the method that you'll have to employ
to EARN MORE.  Here are some methods:

1. Give great attention to creating satisfied clients, so that when
   the line is not busy, they call YOUR extension, and you get more
   business than the others on the line.

2. Inform the company you are working for of certain knowledge that
   they may need, such as fluency in another language, particularly
   aware of romantic affairs, of gay affairs, UFO'S, etc.  Some  
   companies have special numbers for these items, and they channel
   calls only to certain psychics who volunteer for these things.

3.  Be on with a company that's producing much business at all   
    times.

INCREASING TALK MINUTES:
Learn Tarot -- it gives a broad range of subjects to talk of.  I
know clairvoyants are talented, but often enough they give
information quickly, and just the details the people are looking
for in the beginning, and their averages are less than 6 minutes
per call.

GETTING IN TUNE:
I've met psychics who tell me that they find it necessary to get
in tune with the person on the phone by having them talk a while. 
One told me that she needed to hear the person talk about anything,
even a lie, just to get in tune.  These were readings where the
preliminary conversation did not have to be charged at $3.95 per
minute.  So, my advice, no matter how psychic you are, is to learn
the tarot and numerology.  It gives you something to talk about
until you get in tune.  Often enough, the data does apply to the
person, and it get's the client started talking.  People are
hesitant to talk too much at $3.95 per minute until you show you
know something, or until they feel familiar with you. My two
favorite inexpensive books for numerology and tarot are:
**************Live your life by the Numbers by Sylvia Di Pietro and
**************The Complete Guide to the Tarot, by Eden Gray.  The
first is published by Signet, and the second is by Bantam.

SPECIALTY LINES:
Some companies have specialty lines.  People will call a certain
900 line to get an astrologer, and another to reach a clairvoyant. 
They will have a main line for all who are on the line.  

DIFFERENT 900 NUMBERS FOR THE SAME COMPANY:
You will see some companies on TV with more than one 900 line
number, depending upon the station you're watching it on.  I'd
expect that the companies are probably checking their ad response
from each station, or for different ads, that way.

HOW OFTEN YOU ARE ACCURATE:
As I wrote earlier, no-one should expect you to be correct every
time.  If there's some life-threatening situation, or some
circumstances that a client could be left stranded by trusting your
information, you should point out that you feel sure of what you're
saying, because you have been correct a certain percentage of the
time (let's say 75 to 95).  I've never known a psychic line that
required you to state you were accurate 100% of the time.  In fact,
they often forbid you to state you are 100% accurate.

EXPOSE ON TV:
*****************Prime Time Live did an expose' on Network TV Feb.
18, 1993.  They depicted less-than-wholesome companies.  Then they
showed part of a PPCN infomercial, stating that they'd tried to
contact Dionne Warwick, who refused an interview.  They evidently
made no attempt to check on the companies with legitimate
practices.  This is a distorted view of the 900 Psychic Line
industry, since there was no showing of the positive side.

CHECKING THE DAILY MESSAGE:
You should call the 800 number every 24 hours, whether you will be
logging on or not.  Often enough, there are important
announcements, other than the times of commercials, that you'll
need to know.  Also, check your mail from these 900 line companies,
and take care to comply with their requests, such as signing a memo
and sending it back, letting them know what hours you expect to
work, or whatever.  Some companies will cut you off if you are not
logged on even for a few minutes, for a certain number of weeks. 
You should hear that warning, so listen to the messages and read
your mail.  You could be cut off because of some warning that you
did not heed because you were not listening.  Remember, even if
one of the companies you are signed on with is doing real well,
there are fluctuations in business, and you may need that other
line you're not paying attention to.

A FEW WORDS AT A TIME:
Using clairaudience, I've had a half a sentence out, not knowing
what the rest would be until maybe a second after the first part,
like, "He'll be back, and it will be.....about 3 weeks." 
Sometimes, I'll say something like, "You're going to..." and the
client will interrupt me with "You're going to what?" or "I can't
have this hesitation at so much per minute." causing me to be
unable to finish the sentence -- to even know what it should be.
If you employ this method, then explain that it was just the
beginning of a sentence and you need to hesitate between parts, and
ask them to be patient and wait.  When using clairvoyance, or
feeling, or knowing, or a combination of the 4 psychic senses noted
in the book, YOU ARE PSYCHIC, the sentences will come complete for
you, and you won't need the above hesitation.

ABOUT YOUR PROGRESS:
In the beginning, you may rely upon tarot, numerology, or
astrology, with some clairaudience and clairvoyance.  During this
time, you may want more input from the client, what their questions
are, or the areas of their life they wish to know about.  

After practice, you'll be able to know about each of the client's
children, details of their interests, etc. but only after the
client starts with that subject, or about a mate, only after the
client directs your attention to the fact that it's a mate that is
the problem.  

Usually, at first you'll do better when you know of the specific
problem with the mate.  Then it will be as well just knowing it's
the mate that is a problem to the client, and the specific problem
will come to you without the client telling you.  Then, as you
develop, you'll know both the subject, that it's the client's mate
that is a problem to him or her, and the details of that problem
without hearing anything from the client. 

The more you continue to trust your impressions, and tell the
client of them without fear of mistakes, the more frequently and
accurately the details will come before you're told of them.  To
learn this trust of your impressions, have an attitude about your
mistakes.  Usually, saying and feeling something like, "Well, guess
I got that one wrong," is a graceful way of dealing with it. 
Remember, any company that has anyone who knows anything about
psychic phenomena, knows that psychics are not correct 100% of the
time.  If you're inaccurate too often, however, try to deal with
the specifics the client gives you until you develop sufficiently
to see those details before the client tells you of them.

WHEN TO BE ON FOR REPEAT CALLERS:
The best time, I've found, is 8 to 10 PM EST 4 days a week.  That's
convenient for people from the East Coast, all the way to Hawaii.
It's during the time that most BIG companies are not receiving too
many calls.  You don't want people calling you during busy times. 
I tell people that I'm on during hours such as those I'm speaking
with them at that time, but may be off temporarily.  I say it's
fine for them to call anytime, but for their convenience, so that
they probably will reach me and not waste money trying, I'll be
sure to be on during the 8 to 10PM period.  Some companies have an
announcement you record beforehand if you're not signed on that
tells the client what times you are available.  Be sure to specify
what time zone that you referring to, in the announcement.

If the line is particularly busy during all hours, people will not
be able to reach you during certain hours, since they will usually
get some recording that you are with another client.  I'd like to
see an option programmed into computers that allows you to be on
only for repeat callers when you give the command with touch-tones.

Other companies have a first minute free, so people trying your
line and not reaching you will not be charged.  Usually, it's a
special 900 phone number.

CHECKING IT OUT:
Sometimes you get impressions, one at a time.  If you're not sure
you're psychically connected, check out what's happening one step
at a time.  Suppose you have the idea that a break-up occurred 2
weeks ago.  Start with that, then go on after you check with the
client that it did occur 2 weeks previous.  Say we're talking about
a boyfriend, and you have some vision of his appearance, and with
that some impressions of what the person is up to, it's sometimes
good to check out the appearance before going on.  Bear in mind
that this questioning COULD create misunderstanding, so be careful
who you do it with.

ASTROLOGERS AND THE BIRTH TIME:
There's a good reason for asking the birth time, and a good reason
for not.  You want it for an accurate ascendant and moon, for one
thing.  You don't want to ask it, because if they don't have the
information, they'll think they won't get a good reading.  If they
were looking for a chart, and you don't ask, then they'll think
it's sloppy work not to ask for one.  Another thing, if they were
not looking to get a chart done, it's best they not know you're
doing one.  For one thing, many are looking for a psychic, not an
astrologer, and they think you're one or the other, and could not
be both.  If the moon position seems like critical information, you
may ask the time of birth if you feel that won't be misinterpreted
by the client.

clicking keyboard:
     The reaction to the sound of clicks, whether spoken or
     not, is "Oh, you're using a computer.  I'm not paying
     $4.00 per minute for someone to use a computer."  They
     think all you're doing is reading something off the
     screen.  Type **************lightly.  If key clicks must
     come, then try to enter the data a few seconds after you
     receive the birth date, or talk over the sound of softly
     pressed key strokes.


psychic astrologers:
     There are times when you use psychic ability mostly, times
     when you use astrology mostly, and times when psychic ability
     is all that should be focused on.  Often enough, the answers
     to many questions come with the eyes closed, and without the
     astrological symbols to distract you.  Explain that you're
     using psychic ability combined with astrology when you have
     to talk about astrology, so the client does not think you are
     just an astrologer.


using terms:
     Don't use terms like "Uranus is transiting your natal Venus,"
     unless the client understands it.  It turns people off, even
     if you explain the meaning of each term, if they don't
     understand the terms to begin with.  Just tell them what it
     means.  Sun sign explanations are what most people understand,
     so you can talk of that more freely.


explanations:
     If you have to explain that the clicking keyboard means only
     that it's for the chart, and not with some text on the screen
     showing the meaning, that will either not be believed, or it
     won't matter. Remember, it's out of suspicion that they either
     comment, or don't comment and just want to get off the line
     to not waste any more money.  Avoid the problem, so you don't
     have to think of rectifying it.  It takes time to explain, and
     many people are EXTREMELY mindful of that time.


best practice:
     When they give the birth date, as all should do, enter it in
     the computer for everyone who calls and calculate for noon
     somewhere in the center of the US.  When interpreting,
     generally disregard the moon and other positions that are time
     sensitive, such as ascendant.  Entering data should be done
     while you're talking with them, and *****quietly.   Then you
     decide how to proceed with the reading, whether you close your
     eyes and work clairvoyantly exclusively, or to read certain
     indications on the screen into your reading.  Avoid, as much
     as possible, the mention of astrology.  


NAMES:  
Ask for names.  If they talk of a husband, ask his name.  You
should take your time tuning into that person's energy.  Ask for
the name of the client when you first start talking with them, and
whether using astrology or not, use the birthdate to tune into the
person.  Take a moment, but always inform the client that you are
taking that silent time, to tune in.  It should be 10 seconds at
the most. 

TIME:
If you pause too much for the impatient person, they'll get upset. 
Yet, some people think if you come up with answers to questions too
quickly, that you're not contemplating well enough.  They may think
you're talking "off the top of your head."  You must use intuition
to know how to best deal with each client.


WHAT, REALLY, QUALIFIES YOU TO WORK A 900 PSYCHIC LINE:
That's entirely up to the company hiring you.  Realize that they
do not want "inaccuracy," but to some that means that you should
not *********appear inaccurate.  To them, it means that you should
not volunteer any information that you're not sure of, and not be
too specific.  To SOME others it means much more, such as being
extremely specific and accurate a high percentage of the time.

SUPERVISOR, HOW TO BE ONE:
Too high a profile can ruin you, but then again, it can bring you
to higher pay and more responsibility working at home.  Be careful,
however, about contracts.  Make sure you are working with a well
established company, to be sure you get paid for your phone bill,
etc.

TERMINATION -- TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT:
Some like to just cut you off, and then wait for you to call and
ask why.  Others will call and find out your problem, then
reinstate you if and when they think it's feasible.  

MEANINGS OF WORDS:
Words and expressions generally spread throughout the industry.

"Monitor" has a new meaning.  It means to call you and talk with
you, not actually listen to a conversation between you and the
client.

Monitor can mean to listen to a conversation between you and the
client if such is technically available to a company.

HANGING UP:
I don't recommend that anyone hang up on a client unless it's
absolutely necessary.  In any event, don't ever do it out of
hostility or fear.  Don't be discourteous.  There may be times that
you must say, "I must hang up now."  

WHO'S IN CONTROL:
The people in the infomercial, the psychics, the celebrities
themselves, mostly do not control the company.  They are probably
not authorized to answer questions from the press about the
company.  

FINANCIAL SECURITY:
There is no such thing.  There are illusions of such.  Some people
think a job is better security than a self-employment situation. 
Others have different ideas of what financial security is.  There
are a few ways of making this business, relatively speaking, more
secure.  However, your security is just that, YOURS.  Are you
secure within?  If so, that will make you a better able person, a
person who projects that worth, that ability, and that will provide
you with security.

1. Save money.  If your expenses are $200. per week, and you're
earning $300., then you NEED to save $100. per week, because your
income will eventually go down to $100. per week, and the extra
$100. you saved will keep you long enough for the income to go to
$200. and then back to $300.  That's the nature of this business.

2. At every opportunity, get repeat business.  Some companies lay
people off, and if you're getting repeat business, they will know
it and keep YOU.  In addition, you'll earn money during the
advertising lulls, while others on the line won't.

3. As mentioned elsewhere, be on with several large companies, and
keep listening to their announcements regularly, and comply with
their requirements to log on a certain amount of time per week or
month, or at certain intervals, to stay with these companies.  They
are not that easy to get back on with, so stay with them.

4. Be connected with an agency that hires people to work these
lines.  (I know of none, presently.  However, I'd like to be one.) 

5. Subscribe to a newsletter that tells what the cycles of these
companies are at any given time.  Are they advertising much lately? 
Are they hiring?  What's their current hiring requirements? (Again,
I know of none, but will be starting one.)

SOUND SINCERE:
Don't fake the sound of your voice, so you SEEM sincere.  Actually
be.  You can be sincere during part of a reading, with the rest of
it not that way.  Just by answering one particular question
insincerely, the sound of your voice can give you away.  If you're
in a hurry to get off the line, you will sound insincere.  Only a
genuine interest in the person, so you really care, will have you
sounding sincere during the entire reading.

ALWAYS ASK THE BIRTHDATE AND FIRST NAME:
First of all, it's a policy of many companies to ask the birth
date, so you're conforming to rules.  Second of all, if you answer
questions or give a reading, it will seem like "OFF THE TOP OF YOUR
HEAD" if you just give answers without first asking for the
birthdate and first name.  When people get accustomed to people
saying, "Let me take a moment to tune in to you," and you just
start talking, people will say, "well, how did you know that?" 
They could complain about you to the company for that.  You have
to get used to what people expect, and they expect to be asked
their birthdate, or at least their first name.  People
automatically think that the name is important, because they've
been on so many lines that required the name.

EXPECTATIONS:
People who are overly suspicious, who think that the reader must
be dishonest, or whatever, will read that into whatever the reader
says.  

LOG: 
Most companies want the date, beginning time, end time, subject
matter, first name and birth date placed in a log.  You are usually
not required to send the information to the company, only to look
up information when they occasionally ask for it. 

BE ASSERTIVE:
Don't be passive.  Bring up subjects that you feel the client
should address.  Don't just wait for the client to say things, or
to seek out counselling.  Counsel them yourself.  Initiate
conversation.

FOR ENTERTAINMENT PURPOSES ONLY:
That's a LEGAL statement in the advertising, not one of fact.  Many
companies expect you to be psychic, REALLY, and those watching the
commercial, even when they see that on the screen, expect the same. 
The statement absolves the company from being taken seriously if
someone wants to sue for something that was said to the client.

DISTRACTIONS:
No, you do not answer the door, take care of your baby, or anything
like that, while talking on the line.  At $3. or $4. per minute,
you do not say "hold on a second while I answer the door."
                      
BEFORE LOGGING ON:
Be in a relaxed, calm state.  If you're angry at anyone, or
disturbed in any way, you must first find peace within to be able
to tune in to the clients.  It's important to meditate before you
start taking calls.  Being in tune to your higher self is
important, also.  If you are not following spirit's guidance with
other affairs of your life, the flow of energy, and thus your
psychic ability, is hampered

BETWEEN CALLS:
There are many things you can do between calls, such as reading
nearly any subject you wish.  If it's a story, and the point of the
story you are at when the phone rings leaves your mind hanging on
what was to happen next, that's not a good state of mind to be
answering the phone.  Non-fiction is more suitable.  There may be
non-fiction magazines that you find interesting, but not too
intriguing or that cause you to concentrate intently.  I find that
if I'm concentrating intently on something I'm reading or writing,
the client thinks I was asleep and says so.  If they complain about
how you sound, and you can explain in FEW words, then do so. If you
receive a phone call on a different phone line, and the
conversation is particularly involving intellectually, or if it
affects you emotionally, it can be, but is not always, a
distraction when you answer the 900 line.  Answering that other
line to say that you'll be available later is OK, or handling
emergencies is, of course, fine.  Between calls, reading a good
book, like ***Starseed Transmissions, The Third Millennium, by Ken
Carey has helped lead me into a renewed realization of our
connection with each other, with the oneness of all consciousness,
and that alone has enhanced my psychic ability.

WATCHING TV BETWEEN CALLS:
When you develop your psychic ability, you will notice that TV is
not nearly the distraction between calls it had been, however it
IS reducing your ability.  You owe it to everyone who calls to give
your BEST.

It's a matter of images and stories interfering with your BLANK
MIND state.  You are, whether you know or not, in a trance when
watching TV.  That trance state induces stories into your
subconscious.  You have scenarios that come from the subconscious
when dealing with clients.  They are blocked by the images, the
stories, the emotions that are a residue from the programs you
watch-- even news items.  It's best to blank your mind, meditate,
before going on the line.  You need to be receptive.  With all
those images, you are not.  If you read the news it will be better
for you, and as far away from the time you take calls as possible.

Watching TV is a PASSIVE activity.  Clairvoyant perception is a
RECEPTION of pictures, and it is ACTIVE.  You are filling your mind
with external images when you watch TV, with ideas, stories, etc. 
Your subconscious mind is clouded with these plots, and it's like
a filter to you, screening out the perception that comes in when
you hold your subconscious and conscious in RECEIVER mode, a place
where your mind is blank, ready to receive.  Watching TV is totally
lacking in self direction and self-discipline.  The time you are
not watching, you become passive, from the previous watching.  When
you receive calls, you go into an altered state, and bring your
mind to that of a passive receiver.  You can confuse those
feelings, those sights with the images of the stories you've just
been exposed to.

Reading a story, in some ways, helps to develop clairvoyance.  You
have to create a picture in your minds eye from the author's
descriptions of trees, feelings of heat or cold, fears, etc.  

To accurately receive, you have to be impartial to the outcome. 
You have to not care what is going to happen.  That's why people
often enough cannot perceive things about people close to them, or
about themselves.

TV, or having your eyes open, CREATES IMAGES for you.  It takes
away from your ability to imagine on your own, and clairvoyance
makes use of the IMAGINATION.  Imagination, by itself, is a tape
of what you imagine.  Clairvoyant vision is also imagination, using
the same screen of the inner eye, it's like having an antenna.  The
psychic antenna picks up images beyond the imagination's videotape.

TV, in my experience, is not good just before and between calls. 
The images are still fresh in your mind, and they interfere with
your sensitivity, especially clairvoyant (seeing) ability.  Video
self-hypnosis tapes for enhancement of psychic ability are the
exception.  The slight trance after the phone rings will actually
be beneficial.  

Psychic ability is enhanced while in a hypnotic state.  The fact
of enhanced ESP ability under induced self-hypnosis was shown
through experimentation of Richard Alan Miller, as illustrated
elsewhere in the publication.

MAILING CAMPAIGNS:
A word about the mailing campaigns.  One thing I don't approve of
is the mail some companies send, that a certain person was picked
because they were having particular problems that were supposedly
known about because of their birthdate, or whatever.  They ask for
the person to call the 900 number and give their code number, but
the person they are calling has no knowledge of the contents of the
mailing, only that mail was sent.

THE BODY:
With psychic ability, the body is VERY important.  If you sit with
your back straight and imagine the energy (and therefore move it)
up from the chakra at the base of your spine, to the top of your
head, and then concentrate upon the energy entering the psychic
reception area of your choice, that will benefit you immensely. 
I have some techniques that are a combination of what I've learned
from others and my own instinctive awareness.  When it comes to
moving energy through the body, remember that some has been written
in warning of this technique if not practiced with great care,
knowledge and guidance.  It's also known as Kundilini Yoga.  Having
been fairly warned, it's your responsibility.  I usually reach a
point where I shiver, even on a warm day, in moving energy through
my body.  You can rub the hands together, then separate them just
far enough, to feel the energy between the palms, then place a hand
over the area you want to focus on, such as the third eye for
clairvoyance, just above the ears for clairaudience, etc.

AWARENESS OF THE INTERCONNECTEDNESS OF ALL:
This is a great enhancer of psychic ability, since you FEEL that
the person on the phone is really in the same room with you.  They
don't FEEL like they are miles away.  You realize they are a part
of you.  Often enough, reading a book and reminding yourself of
this interconnectedness is a great enhancer of your ability to go
on with greater psychic perception.



YOUR ABILITY - MOOD, BODY CONDITION, ETC.
Psychic ability can vary according to your mood, body condition,
etc.  Sometimes you know the person's questions before they ask. 
At other times, you need some input before you can help them. 
There are subtle ways of getting to find out more from the client,
such as getting the name of a person involved with them to focus
on, rather than saying, "Are you involved with someone now?"  Your
psychic ability improves with experience, as you'll see, and you
may need some information before you can really tune in.  Do NOT
insist upon it though.  Also, don't give answers just to be saying
something.  You can hurt people that way.  If you feel the answer,
or if you know the answer, or if you hear the answer, give it. 
Otherwise, just say you don't know.  

MOTIVATION:
You may "log on" one time with a primary motive of earning money,
and then another time when your main concern is the people you're
communicating with.  There are many reasons for doing this work,
and just before each time you "log on," it would be a good idea to
take an inventory for that session.  The reasons, generally, are:

ego --                to prove to yourself you can be accurate

spiritual --          to give you a connection with higher       
                      consciousness

advancement --        through practice to improve your ability

concern for others -- either their spiritual, psychological, 
                      emotional or other benefit

money --              you should be concerned about money        
      
enjoyment --          you should enjoy this work, and through a  
                      change of perspective, make enjoyable the  
                      parts that were formerly distasteful

Every one of the above, when held in balance, are wholesome
motives.  Some would say you should do it for enjoyment, and the
money will follow.  Others would say something different.  All I
can say is, do it with a balanced motivation.  If you're only
counting time and money, the quality of your work will suffer. 
When you meditate before going on-line, do this inventory, and make
adjustments in your motivation if necessary.

TAROT, ASTROLOGY, ETC.:
As you progress with your psychic ability, the use of divination
methods will become less important.  In the beginning, people may
interpret strictly according to the simplest accepted meanings of
symbols - ie: MARS SQUARE VENUS would show some sort of conflict
in male-female relations.  That variation is, of course, shown with
other factors such as the signs the planets are in, as well as
other planets connected by aspect.   Then, with practice at feeling
the symbols, the interpretation will be with varying shades of
meaning.  Still, other variations come from your psychic ability. 
The MARS SQUARE VENUS would then be read, as an example, jealousy
coming from the male.  After awhile, the psychic astrologer or
tarot reader needs the external symbols less and less.  Then he or
she begins to see their own symbols within the mind.


PSYCHIC ABILITY AND PHYSICAL CONDITION:
Your diet, exercise, and overall physical condition affect your
psychic ability.  It can vary from day to day, and from hour to
hour.  You should carefully monitor your body condition and recent
physical activities at the times you feel you've been accurate with
readings, and the feedback has proven you accurate.  Then note when
you haven't been so good, and comparing the results thus know how
to take care of yourself.  You should be poised yet alert. 
Drinking too much coffee will make you alert, but it may also not
permit the relaxed condition necessary for psychic perception. 
Monitoring yourself carefully will allow you to readily make the
correct changes in diet, exercise and other lifestyle needs.

FATIGUE:
It has a negative affect upon psychic condition.  It's difficult
to perceive much when you first wake up.  You may get flashes of
insight that come FROM the lucid state, but will be lacking the
ability to follow through with much detail.  Overwork, or just
waking up at a call are mostly detrimental to psychic work.

SOME CIRCUMSTANCES THAT PSYCHICS CANNOT BE CLAIRVOYANT:
1. When you're disturbed, excited, angered.  In those instances,
where something the client says disturbs you, go on to a tarot or
numerology reading, and forget about relying upon your psychic
ability alone.  This happens by:
     a. clients saying offensive things, ill-mannered, etc.
     b. clients not allowing you a pause, because as they say,
        "It's $3.95 per minute and I'm paying while you think."
         (You're actually not "thinking" but rather trying just
          the opposite, but attempting to explain it would further
          "waste" their $3.95 per minute)
     c. Client's are drunk or on some drug, or some strange
        mental and emotional state that makes you, particularly,
        unable to read them.

At some point in the future, as you develop with psychic ability:
       1. You'll not be affected by the way people act, since    
          you'll rise above such influences
       2. When affected, your psychic ability will not be hampered
          by your excitement or anger.
       3. You'll have time during a pause to reassess your anger
          and let it go.

PSYCHIC GUESSING GAMES:
Some people want to see how well you are at guessing things, often
things of no real worth to them, just to pass or fail their tests
and satisfy curiosity.  Some will ask you their hair color, how
many children they have, or "tell me about my past," and things
like that.  This doesn't happen often.  I have ways of dealing with
that which are not offensive, but I don't like to say you SHOULD
use them.  You have your own personality, and each person you deal
with will require a different approach.  I've done everything from
giving the answers to how many fingers were being held up, or how
many children they had, to saying, "I don't play psychic guessing
games."  Another thing I've told people is that psychic ability is
subjective, and involves motivation.  "If I'm not motivated to show
you how well I do, then my ability will not manifest."  I tell them
my main motivation is to help people, and when I sense that they
have some need, I'm able to know more.  If you decide to play a
psychic guessing game, be sure you have an inner knowing, or
decline to get involved.  Also, be sure you have the motivation,
whether to show-off or whatever.  If you are wrong, as you
occasionally may be, you can accept that gracefully, as we can
cannot win ***all the games we play.  Before you allow yourself to
get into this on the line, practice with playing or tarot cards,
with friends, with people you just met about how many children they
have, etc.  Don't PRACTICE this on the line.  Do it on the line
only after you've practiced for fun with others and proven a good
success rate, far in excess of the average.  Again, I'm not
advising you here as to WHAT to do, just telling what I've done,
and some options you have.  If you're intuitive, you should not be
following mine, or anyone else's rules rigidly, or to say any of
what I've said unless YOU actually mean it.

WAKING UP TO A 900 CALL:
Most people sound groggy when they are awakened by the 900 line,
and that's not good.  Even if your psychic ability is enhanced by
that state, the client won't believe it if you sound half asleep. 
In fact, even when you've been wide awake and alert, many don't
understand that all psychics do not sound alert after meditation,
and the lack of an alert SOUNDING voice, though it indicates a
state of mind that's beneficial to the client, does not usually
seem that way to them.  

WHAT MANY MISUNDERSTAND OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA:
Remember that the people on the line, for the most part, do not
understand psychic phenomena.  To many, you are either psychic or
you are not.  There are shades of grey, but they see only black or
white.  There are many colors, but they are color blind.  They do
not understand that you may know some things, and not others.  An
example:  A woman said, "tell me about my love life."  I said that
it looked like she'd be in a long lasting relationship.  I told her
I'd sensed some recent problem, but it was only temporary.  She
said, "Well, we just broke up, so it couldn't be long lasting.  I
don't think you and I have more to say."  Well, we all know that
many people break up and get back together over and over, and each
time they think it's the end.  Some of the break-up's are for good,
and others are not.  Well, too bad that conversation could not have
gone on.  She had an image of what psychics are supposed to know,
and a firm belief that a break-up meant the absolute end of the
relationship.  I've tried to explain about the fact that psychics
don't know EVERYTHING, and have been told, "Well, you're not
psychic then."  It's just that they think a "psychic" is someone
who knows everything, and a non-psychic doesn't know anything. 
There's no middle ground to these people.  They also think some are
born with it, and others not, and that's all there is to it. 
Actually, we're all born with it.  Some have enhanced their
ability, or through early training never lost it, and some don't
believe they have it.

SOME EVEN THINK...
Now, this is really "off the wall," and don't expect it to happen
more than once or twice a year.  I've asked what a person's birth
date was, and they said I should know that since I'm supposed to
be psychic, and they were NOT kidding.  The same with another
person's city they were in.  Another said that when I asked their
name.

Don't get discouraged over the misunderstandings of these people. 
It's not your problem.  Remember, they are paying by the minute,
and not many of them want lengthy explanations for that paying
time.

TELEPATH vs. CLAIRVOYANT:
I've asked people if they had a particular subject to discuss, and
they've said, "You're the psychic, so tell me."  I usually tell
them that to read their mind involves telepathic ability, and that
psychics have specialties, just like doctors and lawyers, and that
I'm more clairvoyant than telepathic.  So, rather than me
attempting to read the person's mind, why not just tell me what
questions they have.  Sometimes people will give you a subject in
their life, such as "love life," or "business," but will not go
into specific questions, since they want to see what you know first
before they do that.  If they say "no questions," try for a
"subject."  When you tell them something you had no way of knowing
except through your psychic ability, they'll open up to you. 
Remember, if someone insists upon a "general reading," telling you
nothing, you should give them just that, whatever your cards, your
astrology, your psychic ability, or a combination reveals, without
any prompting at all from them.  This doesn't happen that often,
but you must realize they are paying $3. or $4. per minute.  If
you're wrong, remember you're not obligated to be infallible.  You
must trust, face the fear, and go on.  Psychic ability increases
when you take chances with your perceptions, believing in them such
that you boldly state them.  Consider your voice, feeling, or
knowing, to be a friend.  Would you continue talking to your friend
if he/she didn't listen to you, trust you, act upon what you'd
said?  Well, it's the same with the voice, feeling, and knowing you
have within.  Listen, believe, and he/she/it will continue to be
there for you.  Soon you will not be afraid to state what you
perceive.  Remember, you may be telling people things that they do
not want to believe, that ARE true.  You can also tell people about
things they'd like to believe about the future, but which seem too
far-fetched.  So, they can be sincere in contradicting you, yet
realize later that they were incorrect.

WHAT ABOUT THE "BEST" PSYCHICS?
When you get down to the reality of this, most of the type of
psychics some of these people expect, would not work a psychic line
for less than the $3. to $4. per minute the client pays.  In that
case, there would be no money remaining for advertising, or for
overhead of any type.  In person, the session would be about $100.,
and there would be no 5 minute answers, only a full 1/2 hour
consultation.  DON'T say this to the client.  Remember, there's
much you can say that will only make matters worse -- true or not. 
To someone who knows very little, it sounds like BS. You can
develop to that of the "BEST" psychics, with your experience on the
line, a focused awareness, and continued exercises prescribed by
certain teachers of psychic ability enhancement.  The author of
***You Are Psychic, Pete Sanders, has FREE SOUL courses in person,
written material, and tapes. Write FREE SOUL P.O. Box 1762, Sedona,
AZ 86336, or call 602-282-9425.  Don't use what I've written here
as an excuse for not being a "GOOD" psychic.  Determine to develop
to the best of your ability, and remember as time passes, even just
hundreds of minutes on the line within a month or so, you should
expect that your abilities WILL improve.  They do for everyone who
focuses on this work with dedication.

800 NUMBERS:
Most 900 psychic line companies will send you a list of FREE 800
numbers for client's to call.  They offer many types of information
and consultation: health, financial, depression, etc.  

800 NUMBERS:
Now people can call 800 numbers and be billed for the call, not
just 900 numbers.

USE A CORDLESS PHONE:
Use a cordless phone to answer when you're away from your desk, so
you can answer within 3 rings -- as that is the standard of most
companies.  It should be a good quality, clear-sounding phone. 
Walk to your desk as you begin answering, and then switch to your
headset.

HEADSETS - NOISES:
If you buy a headset, get one for both ears to cover background
noises from outside the window, etc.  Also, don't get a cheap one. 
I've had my eardrum blasted by yelling in the background, fallen
dishes, etc.  Mine is a noise cancelling AT&T with a volume control
for amplifying all those very low voice connections, and when your
volume control is up, and there's a loud connection, it doesn't
hurt the ears.  There are office supply catalogs and stores with
headsets for about $100.  I don't know about their noise filtering
capabilities.  It's a good idea to have both hands free while
speaking with clients.

MINIMUM AND AVERAGE LENGTH OF CALLS:
The minimum length of time, ideally, is that which gives the
clients a deep sense of lasting satisfaction.  Since the client
often does not know exactly what that is, it ***could be more than
he or she had expected.  Some calls can be less than a minute. 
There's should not be an average required by the company you're
working with.  My experience indicates that if the average is less
than 5 minutes per call over a 24 hour period, with over 20 calls,
there's need for me to figure what I'm doing wrong.  No-one should
be checking your average minutes per call, but you could yourself. 
If many people don't find anything interesting enough to want to
talk more than 3 minutes, are you distracted by activity between
calls, wanting to get back to it?  Are you meditating between calls
often enough, concerned about the people who will be calling you? 
With some companies in this business, you could be coached about
ways to keep people on the line, asked to give more "information"
just before they hang up, perhaps say something like, "I have
excellent information for you about....."  If a company asks you
to do that, I'd advise you to find one or two other companies that
don't.  If a call lasts less than a minute, and that's all the
person needs, say "good-bye" and hang up.  If you have something
for that person, some REAL information, tell them even though they
had only wanted to ask a certain question.  As an example, they may
ask you when a certain person would likely contact them.  Give the
answer, but continue telling whatever details about that contact,
about that person, or the circumstances that you know and feel will
be helpful.  If you have an attitude of helpfulness, then you'll
automatically be coming up with solutions to their problems that
they'll want to know.  The client who stays on the line should feel
comfortable about it.  Don't FINALIZE calls, unless they are
talking beyond time limits.  Let them decide when to end the call. 
Some companies write in their literature that they want you to talk
no less than 10 minutes on average.  They and others will or will
not insist upon you doing what they say, depending upon
availability of other psychics to take your place, and other
factors of internal management.  Some companies advertise that the
average call is 5 or 6 minutes.  Those usually do not insist you
have a minimum average above about 4 minutes.

BUSY, BUSY, (non-stop calls) LINES:
Average lengths don't matter too much, except that you want to be
sure and give adequate information.  If there's a particular need,
then stay with them as long as necessary, and don't be concerned
with getting more calls.  Usually, it's best to focus on one
subject by asking the client what they are mostly interested in,
or telling what you perceive they are.  The less minutes per call,
the more calls you receive that will promote future business --
people calling your extension number when the line is no longer so
busy.  The company will get more calls answered, and less people
will get busy signals.

There's a fatigue factor with busy lines, and you can get burned
out fast if you do not have some method of getting off for 10
minutes or a half hour to rest and mediatate.  It's best to have 
touch-tone memory in your phone, to dial up the computer by
pressing a button for the phone number and access codes, then
usually "2" to log off.  This can be done while you're talking with
a client on the other line.

How much can you work on a busy line per day?  It depends.  So far
509 minutes during a 24 hour period has been my top figure.  When
given the opportunity on a busy line again, I believe I can build
up to 600, and stay consistent.  The increase per day should be
gradual.  If you're talking gibberish, not making sense, or tuned
out, GET OFF THE LINE until you recuperate.  What good is all the
money if you either lose the position from complaints, and/or ruin
your KARMIC situation, and generally feel lousy inside because
you're taking with little or nothing to give.

I believe that one can increase connect minutes (talk minutes)
effectively, but it's a gradual process.  There are spiritual
disciplines, types of meditation, (white light) and a general
conditioning required to keep one psychically connected to the
people calling.  

One has to be shielded from the negativity, yet not isolated from
the clients.  This is a valuable learning experience.  

In addition, one's psychic ability is used for so many hours, and
that makes it just that much more acutely aware of details before
people mention the details of their lives to you, such as the
recent loss of a job, separation from a spouse, how many children
they have, etc.


ADVICE and COERCION FROM THOSE IN AUTHORITY:
You may be told to talk 10 minutes on average.  You may be told to
take control of conversations at the beginning.  Remember, that
often enough these companies are owned and operated by more than
one person, and chances are someone above those advising and
coercing you have other ideas.  The commercial has much to do with
your behavior on the phone.  If it appears, from the commercial,
that 5 minutes is expected and no more, then it's fine for you to
have a 5 minute average.  Other factors, some of which you may
never know the details of, must be taken into consideration.  How
much does an infomercial cost?  How much revenue are they
producing?  Do those factors make it so that 10 minutes is required
from everyone to reach a profit?  The factors you know are this:
How many repeat clients are you getting?  If you're getting many,
whatever you are not doing to get 10 minute averages, rather than
6 minute averages, are not as important to the company as the
repeat clients.  Also, the less time a person spends on the line,
the more likely he or she will call back, and the more often that
person will call back.  If a person sees a phone bill of $20. and
remembers the usefulness of your information, he or she will much
more likely call you back than if it's $40.  If you get repeat
callers during periods that you'd not get any calls in rotation,
and they DO call you, speaking 5 minutes EVERY month, it's much
better for you and the company than if they speak to you maybe once
every 6 months for 10 minutes. 

And, regarding advice, coercion, testing, monitoring from those in
authority.  Many know much less than you will after you've done
this work awhile.  That doesn't help much if they decide to fire
you, but it's useful for you to know when you attempt or succeed
at negotiation.  Mostly, they are not very psychic, and also know
very little of the subject.  The most detrimental part is they
mostly have spent NO time on the line.   They are right about when
they tell you to avoid distractions during calls.  Definitely shut
off the ringer of your regular phone, and turn down the volume on
the answering device.  Get off your cordless phone, and switch to
a regular one as soon as possible, and devote your entire attention
to the client.  These people who dictate policy from their offices
are a problem when they try to tell what a psychic is or is not. 
Some even rely on their own so-called "intuition" or "feeling"
which is more often nothing than their own subconscious hang-ups
and irrational fears.  Often enough, it's not the people in the
office, but rather the investors who dictate policy, test psychics,
etc.  The owners are at their mercy during the stage that profits
are low or non-existent, and they just follow along, even if what
the investors require is directly opposed to the owners former
policy.  I've seen them throw reason, common sense, and compassion
out the window to fire someone that an investor decided to after
that investor tested the psychic.

There are companies that have policies about what you should say
if a client asks you if their mate is cheating on them -- usually
avoidance.  Others will tell you not to discuss death.  Often
enough, such questions, when answered, do cause problems.  I
believe you should be aware that you may cause someone to kill
their wife when you say they're being cheated on.  You should be
aware of the grief you can cause when you talk too much of death,
or predict deaths.  You should be aware - PERIOD.  If you're not
aware, then follow the rules given to the letter, and gradually
develop the awareness to be able to use good, sound, judgement and
decide whether to talk of death or other "forbidden" subjects for
any given client.

There are companies that don't want you to go to the restroom
between calls.  I think that depends upon whether you normally wait
15 minutes or an hour between calls, and other factors you can best
use your imagination to figure.  

Some people (in positions of authority) in these offices know they
need other people who understand astrology, psychic phenomena, etc. 
If you're a good leader, and have much experience on the line, then
try your best to become a supervisor.  They are needed in the field
for specific areas of the country to hire people and help them
along -- to encourage them.  You'll be helping them avoid future
complaints to the company if some have been received about the
quality of communication, etc.  It takes experienced people in the
field to properly communicate with those on the psychic line.  Most
of the people in these main offices cannot do it properly.  Even
when competent people are in the office, often enough they are too
busy.  

Be sure you receive an adequate compensation agreement, and that
the contract is signed by someone in authority at the main office
before or soon after you start.  If you'll be making long distance
calls, that should be considered in your compensation, rather than
separately figured.  Figure that if you get 5 cents for every
minute of talk time of those you hire, train, encourage, etc. that
will pay for your long distance charges, and be enough to pay you
for your services.  Trust the company for the percentage if it's
a large and reputable and well backed company, but not for
compensation for long distance charges separately figured.  

They'll probably require you to have a beeper, so you can call the
psychics up when it's especially busy.  There's a lot of work,
managing people, making sure that a certain number of them are on,
monitoring to see who's on, (you use a special access code for
this) etc.

DAMNED IF YOU DO -- DAMNED IF YOU DON'T:
Some will ask you, after hearing that you want their birth date,
"What do you need that for?"  Others will say, "I don't want any
astrology here." Others will say, "You didn't even ask my birth
date, so how can you tell about what will happen."  If you answer
too quick for them, some will say "You're getting that off the top
of your head."  Then if you find it necessary to take your time
with others, they'll say, "I'm paying $3.95 per minute for this,
so hurry up and answer my question."  Some will talk non-stop, ask
you questions, then go on talking if you are unable to answer
instantly.  Then they'll complain to you that you had no psychic
input for them.  I once told one of these people that if she'd stop
talking for just 10 seconds after asking a question, that I'd be
able to answer for her.  She did so, and my answers showed her that
I did know things that she'd not told me.

REPEAT CALLERS:
The most effective way to get many repeat callers is to just say,
"Let me know how things turn out?" and give your extension number. 
Most will not ask when you'll be available.  It's best to tell them
times and days of the week you will be available.


HANGUPS:
People will hang up when you first answer.  Then, too, some systems
will malfunction and it will seem they are hanging up on you. 
Often enough, people want female psychics and they hang up when
they hear a male voice.  Some will say to you they want a female
when they hear your male voice.  Then, too, people will hang up on
you in the middle of calls.  Don't get offended, but find out why
you were so uninteresting, so the next person won't do it also.

YOU HANGING UP:
Don't hang up on anyone unless the person is obscene and you find
that offensive, or VERY obnoxious.  Don't do it because you've been
put on the spot or feel uncomfortable about not being able to
provide the service that's expected.  There are reasons why you may
not be able to do what certain people ask.  Explain that, whether
what's requested is not your specialty, if there is a certain
extension number you can tell the client for certain specialties,
or whatever.

STAY INTERESTING:
Use your sense of humor.  Make SHORT jokes.  Kid with the people. 
Perhaps be a bit sexy -- in a way that's not overt, sort of like
allude to sexual subjects, without being direct.  Keep the people
interested, and they'll stay with you and find the conversation
entertaining.  Bore them and they'll hang up or just say good-bye
and hang up.  You're not there JUST to deliver facts.  Deliver them
in an entertaining manner.


TECHNICAL PROBLEMS:
Usually there's a number that a company will want you to call with
technical problems.

You can get logged off for not answering too many calls in a row
(usually 2) and that causes the client to wait till your phone
rings a certain number of times (usually 2) and then the number of
rings for the next person in the cycle.  Many times you get the
call the second one.  Some companies will require you go through
a procedure to get logged on, and others may just send you a notice
in the mail.  Some are very strict, and if this happens 2 Times in
a week, you'll get a termination of the contract.

There are many other technical problems.  Some systems will go
wrong and no-one will receive calls, so the company wants to get
their beeper beeped when that happens, so they don't lose a lot of
money.

Be aware that some systems will take a non-answered call and
transfer it to you.  You may pick up at YOUR 2nd ring, but to the
caller it's been an inordinate time that they have been waiting. 
They do not hear numbers of rings, only recordings that are
designed to keep them patient.  It's hard to stay patient when one
knows it's $3.95 per minute and no-one is talking to the person.

When a system is not working properly, it may register you as not
answering your phone, when in fact you're just getting the second
or third pass-off of someone else not answering.  That should be
corrected by the technical staff that your company either hires out
temporarily, or has permanently employed.

REFERRING TO ANOTHER PSYCHIC:
If you're not comfortable with tarot, astrology, or other
specialties like finding lost objects, just find what extension
numbers have those specialties, from the main office, and refer the
client to those numbers.  You can also do your best to help the
client, without taking too much time, and then refer them to the
other extension numbers.  I've had people tell me they didn't feel
qualified to find lost objects, and that after reading in a
newsletter that another psychic did, did not feel adequate to the
task.  I explained that there were specialties, and that person
could refer to another extension.  Also, when referring to another
extension, be sure that you make it clear how to dial them, whether
a touch-tone phone would be needed, or whatever.

TERMINATION:
Contract provisions are different with the companies.  Some will
warn you first, and others will not.

REPEAT CALLS:
People who like you and your service will want to call back and
speak with you specifically.  This is done with the voice-mail
system on the 900 number.  You should give your extension number
to clients before saying "good-bye."  Some companies can have you
leave an announcement for those who dial your extension when you're
not on duty.  It will give the times and days of the week you are
available.  When you record it, place times that the line is NOT
busy, when there are no major ads running.  This can be as little
as one hour a day, or one hour per week.  Use some standard time,
usually where the company is located, when you give the times,
example: "I'll be available Monday thru Thursday, 6 to 10 PM
Eastern Time."  For companies that don't have the recording
facility, it's best to give your extension and  schedule to the
client while you have them on the line.  Some companies use touch-
tone, and others use a voice activated system so that a person need
only speak your extension number and be connected to you.

Somc companies offer the first minute free on certain 900 
numbers.  With this, the client can call, try your extension
number, and hang up within one minute without incurring any cost. 
They can call you as often as they like.  Be sure you tell them to
get off the line within 1 minute when you inform them of that
number.

COUNSELING:
There has to be, whenever people are open to it, some counseling. 
You'll either help them with certain circumstances, or inform them
that they can rid themselves of depression, lack of self-love, job
problems, or love life problems.  They should know they have the
ability to create their lives the way they want to.  You should
know all this yourself from experience, and then help them with it. 
There's much material about this in the "sources" section of this
publication.


AVOID DISTRACTIONS:
With 2 lines, y***ou should have your answering machine turned down
and the ringer off so you don't hear it.  If you were expecting a
call, hearing the ringer may have you wondering if it was who you
were waiting for while talking with a client.  There are many
things you may allow between calls, but whatever they are, it
should be possible to eliminate them when your 900 line rings.

You may have a better ability to focus on your work, so what
distracts others, may not distract you.  Also, as your psychic
ability improves, the TV, as an example, may not be as detrimental
to you.  The TV between calls doesn't affect me as much as it did
over a year ago.  Still, I very seldom watch it between calls
because I know it does have some effect.

SOME WANT TO HURT PEOPLE:
Yes, there are people who endeavor to put psychics through some
kind of difficult mental changes.  Remember, they do this all the
time to many people, whether psychic or not.  You're just another
one in their way.  Also, I know this is easy to say, but don't be
affected by it.  You can detach from your emotions, so that you're
not affected.  I don't mean you should not feel emotions, nor do
I mean you should take abuse.  However, your resistance to such
people will bring more of them in your rotation.  Just DON'T RESIST
by emotionally condemning them, even in so-called "secret." As Dick
Sutphen would say, "What you resist, persists."  Let it pass, and
it WILL pass, and you'll hardly run into difficult people again. 
You create your reality.

DON'T PREACH
If your beliefs are helping the client, that's fine.  However, for
those not interested in your "trip," leave them be.  Help them with
their mundane affairs like their love life and money, and leave the
mention of spirituality out of it.



                     SOURCES:

                      PART OF MY PERSONAL LIBRARY,
                          BOOKS I'VE PURCHASED
                                  THOSE
                          I LIKE TO HAVE AROUND
                            LIKE OLD FRIENDS

                             TO LOOK THROUGH
  
                            FROM TIME TO TIME


Author      Title

U.S. Andersen,  The Magic in Your Mind
Chris Griscom,  Time is an Illusion
Dr. Quanz Crawford, Methods of Psychic Development
Pete A. Sanders, Jr.  You Are Psychic
Eden Gray, A complete Guide to the Tarot
Sylvia DiPietro, Live Your Life by the Numbers (Numerology)
Elisabeth Haich, Initiation
David Bohm and E. David Peat, Science, Order and Creativity
Colin Wilson, Mysteries (An investigation into the occult,
                         the Paranormal, and the supernatural)
[Colin Wilson's book is very informative.  It was recommended
 to me by my fiction writing teacher (Writer's Digest Schools)
 J.N. Williamson]  Williamson's written a number of popular fiction
 books on the paranormal, including Brotherkind.

C.W. Leadbeater, A Textbook of Theosophy
C.W. Leadbeater, The Astral Plane
Ernest Holmes, The Basic Ideas of Science of Mind
Stevens, What is your Psy Q
C.G. Jung, Memories, Dreams, Reflections
Douglas & Slinger, Sexual Secrets
Cannon, Conversations With Nostradamus
Marilyn Ferguson, The Aquarian Conspiracy
Barbara Ann Brennan, Hands of Light
Dick Sutphen, Predestined Love
J. Krishnamurti, Freedom From The Known
Pirsig, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance
Richard Bach, Illusions
Bob Toben, Space, Time and Beyond
Deepak Chopra, The Higher Self (tapes 800-323-5523)
Alice A. Bailey, Initiation, Human and Solar (Lucis Pub. NY)
Alice A. Bailey, Ponder on This (Lucis Pub. NY)
Jane Roberts, Seth Speaks
Jane Roberts, The Nature of Personal Reality
Gopi Krishna, Kundalini
 
If you're new to ideas expressed in these books, and it becomes 
confusing to you, try to look at reality as a fluid, rather than
a slab of concrete.

The expressions of such reality can never consist of fact, in the
absolute sense.  What can be "ABSOLUTELY" true?  Reality, in
such matters as life after death, reincarnation, Karma, God,
time, good, evil, and so-on, can only be expressed as reflections
of that reality.

Read the works of:
Richard Alan Miller, Organization for the Advancement of Knowledge,
Inc., 1305 Vista Drive, Grants Pass, OR  97527 503-476-5588
(MUCH OF HIS WORK IS IN THE "NEW AGE" SECTION OF COMPUSERVE,
 UNDER THE CIS ID 72711,707 AND THE "METAPHYSICAL" SECTION OF 
AMERICA ON LINE.)

ESP as it relates to Self Hypnosis is shown in this writing, and
that material was written by Richard Alan Miller


Here are two concepts:  

CREATING IT ALL:
You create your own reality, by your beliefs.  If you believe your
life must be a struggle, it will continue to be so.  If you see the
universe as one of abundance and joy, your life will be that way.
If you take responsibility for your life's fortune or misfortune,
the greater that responsibility, the greater will be your power to
change it, consciously.  Change your beliefs, and thus your 
reality.

KARMA:
You bring upon yourself your own difficulties, coldness, and
loneliness in your life.  You also bring monetary abundance and
love to yourself, both self-love and love from others.  Much
depends upon how well you treat others, or have treated them in the
past.  Have you been truly kind to others?  Have you cared and
helped others when the opportunity was there?  When you give
advice, is it half-hearted, or is it with a real, deep, desire to
help?  Never mind what you say, or act, what do you think to
yourself?  What do you feel?  If the feelings are not wholesome,
change them! 
              

OK, there are two concepts.  Concepts are tools to me.  A tool is
something you use, not something that you are taken in by.  If you
become attached to an idea -- a concept -- it consumes you.  You
can find use for the above.  Use them in the laboratory of everyday
life, and particular this business of 900 psychic line activity. 
They've helped me, released my from many unnecessary burdens, and
produced much joy, abundance, and overall good throughout a
significant number of years in this particular life.

Here's another concept: reincarnation.  It's helped me,
particularly, to understand my past, and probably future, love-
life.  What good it will do for you depends upon you, and your
particular path through life.  Remember, it's a reflection of
reality, and also best used just as tool.



              MY NEARBY PUBLIC LIBRARY LISTINGS FOR KEYWORDS:
              This is from Longmont, CO -- not an especially
              large library.
              
              (list obtained via my personal computer and modem)

           [AUTHOR Bruce Daniel Kettler comments in brackets]

           [I do not necessarily endorse all books listed here, either for the 
            use of your time, or with approval of the viewpoints expressed.
            You must browse and decide what to read -- if they are available 
            in your library]

            

                       Your search:  ESP
 
     AUTHOR        TITLE (truncated)         CALL#    
 

   1. Akins, W. R. ESP, your psychic powers and ho 133.8 AKI
   2. Arvey, Michael. ESP :   opposing viewpoints / 133.8 ARV
   3. Cohen, Daniel.  ESP :   the new technology / 133.8 COH
   4. Ebon, Martin, comp. Beyond space and time; an ESP c133.8 EBO
   5. Ehrenwald, Jan, 1900- The ESP experience : a psychiat 133.8 EHR
   6. Hansel, Charles Edward M ESP and parapsychology :   a cr133.8 HAN
   7. Perl, Lila. Annabelle Starr, E.S.P. / f PERL, L.
   8. Randi, James. Flim-flam! : psychics, ESP, uni 133.8 RAN
 
      [from what I know of Randi, I expect this to be a debunker
       of ESP as a real phenomenon.  Be aware that there are
       books which show the statistical significance of astrology,
       and ESP test results.  I haven't looked at such material 
       in years, so if you're interested in such debate,
       do your own research to find titles.]

   9. Rhine, J. B.   (Joseph B Parapsychology, frontier scienc 133.8 RHI
  10. Rogo, D. Scott. Mind beyond the body : the myst 133.92 MIN



                           Your search:  TAROT
 
     AUTHOR          TITLE (truncated)            CALL#    
 
  1. Anthony, Piers. Vision of tarot PAPERBACK
  2. Benares, Camden. Common sense tarot : the comple 133.324 BEN
  3. Gerulskis-Estes, Susan. The book of tarot / 133.3242 GER
  4. Giles, Cynthia. THE TAROT: HISTORY, MYSTERY AND
  5. Jayanti, Amber. LIVING THE TAROT: APPLYING AN A
  6. Junjulas, Craig, 1952- Psychic Tarot : illustrated wit 133.324 JUN
  7. Kaplan, Stuart R. The encyclopedia of tarot / 133.32424 KA
  8. Pollack, Rachel. Teach yourself fortune telling  133.324 POL
  9. Roberts, Richard, 1941- Tarot & you / 133.32424 RO
 10. Roberts, Richard. The original tarot & you / 133.324 ROB
 11. Steward, Alan. Down to earth Tarot / 133.324 STE
 12. Stuart, Micheline. The tarot path to self-developm 133.324 STU
 13. Warner, Mignon. The tarot murders / FICTION WARN



                    Your search:  NUMEROLOGY
 
     AUTHOR               TITLE (truncated)            CALL#    
 


   1. Bishop, Barbara J.,   19 Numerology :   the universal vi 133.335 BIS
   2. Bunker, Dusty. Numerology and your future / 133.335 BUN
   3. Dodge, Ellin. Numerology has your number /  133.335 DOD
   4. Hitchcock, Helyn. Helping yourself with numerolog 133.335 HIT
   5. Leek, Sybil. Numerology; the magic of number 133.335 LEE
   6. Roquemore, Kathleen. It's all in your numbers : the  133.335 ROQ
   7. Simpson, Jean, 1942-  Hot numbers : use numerology to 133.335 SIM



                       Your search:  ASTROLOGY
 
     AUTHOR          TITLE (truncated)         CALL#    
 

   1. Allen, Mark,   1946- Astrology for the new age :   a 133.5 ALL
   2. Arroyo, Stephen. Astrology, karma & transformati 133.5 ARR
   3. Arroyo, Stephen.  Astrology, karma & transformati 133.5 ARR
   4. Arroyo, Stephen. Astrology, psychology, and the  133.5 ARR

   [I DO endorse all the above books by ARROYO, and in addition, 
    Relationships and Life Cycles]

   5. Avery, Jeanne. Astrology and your health / 133.5861 AVE
   6. Aylesworth, Thomas G. Astrology and foretelling the f 133.3 AYL
   7. Branley, Franklyn Mansfi Age of Aquarius : you and astro 133.5 BRA
   8. Clow, Barbara Hand,   19 Chiron :   rainbow bridge betwe 133.53 CLO
   9. Dalton, Joseph Grinnell, Dalton's tables of houses : sph133.54 DAL
  10. Dalton, Joseph Grinnell, The spherical basis of astrolog 133.54 DAL
  11. Davison, Ronald C. Astrology :   the classic guide 133.5 DAV
  12. Dean, Malcolm. The astrology game : the inside 133.5 DEA
  13. Eysenck, H. J. (Hans Jur Astrology, science or superstit 133.5 EYS
  14. Foreman, Patricia L. Computers and astrology : a uni 133.5 FOR
  15. Gallant, Roy A. Astrology: sense or nonsense? 133.5 GAL
  16. Gauquelin, Michel. Birthtimes : a scientific inves 133.5 GAU
  17. George, Llewellyn, 1876- A to Z horoscope maker and deli 133.542 GEO
      [This is a useful book.  I haven't looked at it in years, so
       don't consider this an agreement with every word in it.]

  18. Hanon, Geraldine Hatch,  Sacred space : a feminist visio 133.5 HAN
  19. Jennings, Gary. The teenager's realistic guide  133.5 JEN
  20. Jerome, Lawrence E. Astrology disproved / 133.5 JER
  21. Leek, Sybil. My life in astrology. 133.50924 LE
  22. Lewi, Grant, 1902-1951. Astrology for the millions / 133.5 LEW
  23. Lewi, Grant,   1902-1951 Heaven knows what /  133.5 LEW
  24. Lewi, Grant. Astrology for the millions. 133.5 LEW
  25. Livingston, Peter. On astrology. 133.5 LIV
  26. Logan, Daniel, 1936- Your Eastern star; oriental ast 133.5 LOG
  27. Lynch, John, 1904- comp. The coffee table book of astrol 133.5 LYN
  28. Lyndoe, Edward. Astrology for everyone. 133.5 LYN
  29. Lyndoe, Edward. Astrology for everyone.  133.5 LYN
  30. MacNeice, Louis, 1907-19 Astrology. 133.5 MAC
  31. March, Marion D. The only way to learn astrology 133.5 MAR
  32. March, Marion. The only way to learn astrology
  33. McEvers, Joan. Planets :   the astrological to 133.53 PLA
  34. Nguyen, An. Chinese astrology / 133.5 NGU
  35. Oleksy, Walter G., 1930- The universe is within you : a  133.5 OLE
  36. Paltrinieri, Mario. The book of practical astrology 133.5 PAL
  37. Parker, Derek. A history of astrology / 133.5 PAR
  38. Sakoian, Frances. Predictive astrology : understa 133.5 SAK
  39. Starck, Marcia. Earth mother astrology /  133.5861 STA
  40. Stearn, Jess. A time for astrology. 133.5 STE
  41. Sun Bear (Chippewa India The medicine wheel : earth astr 299.7 SUN
  42. Zolar.  ASTROLOGY: A GUIDE TO THE SIGNS
  43. Zolar.  The history of astrology  133.5 ZOL


[I recommend the following book, in addition to other books you may 
 find by Dick Sutphen, including "Predestined Love" and
 "Past Life Therapy in Action."  I recommend you call for a 
 complete catalog of tapes and books: 818-889-1575 from 
 Valley of The Sun Publishing.]




Call Number  DYNIX #  49465
 
AUTHOR  1) Sutphen, Dick.
 
TITLE  You were born again to be together /
 
PUBLISHER  Pocket Books,
 
DATES  c1976.

PAGES  253 p. ; 18 cm.
 
SUBJECTS  1) Hypnotism.

           - - - More on Next Screen - - - -

          Press <Return> to see next screen :  


Commands:  SO = Start Over, B = Back, RW = Related Works, C = Copy status,
  PH = Place a Hold, <Return> = Next Screen, ? = Help 

  Continued...

2) Reincarnation.

OCLC 
rla86061993            

 All copies in use 
 
 See Copy status 

- - - - End of Title Info - - - -



                       Your search:  SELF HYPNOSIS
 
     AUTHOR           TITLE (truncated)        CALL#    
 


   1. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Discover greater happiness & pl 158.1 BLO
   2. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Do less, accomplish more  158.1 BLO
   3. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Get unstuck & get what you want 158.1 BLO
   4. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Look & feel beautiful  158.1 BLO
   5. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Lose weight  613.25 BLO
   6. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Self-hypnosis & meditation  154.7 BLO
   7. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Sleep soundly & awake refreshed 154.62 BLO
   8. Bloomfield, Harold H.,  Stop smoking 613.85 BLO
   9. Fisher, Stanley W. Discovering the power of self-h 158.1 FIS
  10. Kroger, William S. Instruction in self-hypnosis. 154.7 KRO
  11. Simpkins, C. Alexander. PRINCIPLES OF SELF HYPNOSIS: PA
  12. Yates, John M. The complete book of self-hypno 616.89162 YA




                      Your search:  PSYCHIC
 
     AUTHOR              TITLE (truncated)             CALL#    
 


   1. A commentary on the Book of the 133.8 COM
   2. Magic and mystery : the incredi 133.9 MAG
   3. Akins, W. R. ESP, your psychic powers and ho 133.8 AKI
   4. Andrews, Valerie. The psychic power of running :  128.2 AND
   5. Archer, Fred, 1920- Crime and the psychic world. 364.12 ARC
   6. Bardens, Dennis. Psychic animals :   a fascinati 156.4 BAR
   7. Bartell, Jan Bryant. Spindrift: spray from a psychic 133.10924 BA
   8. Bradley, Dorothy Bomar. Psychic phenomena; revelations  133 BRA
   9. Druffel, Ann. The psychic and the detective / 133.91 DRU
  10. Ebon, Martin. Psychic warfare : threat or ill 133.8 EBO
  11. Fortune, Dion. Psychic self-defense / 133.8 FOR
  12. Goodman, Jeffrey. Psychic archeology : time machi 001.9 GOO
  13. Heaney, John J. The sacred and the psychic : pa 261.515 HEA
  14. Hintze, Naomi A. The psychic realm : what can yo 133.8 HIN
  15. Jones, Henry Z. PSYCHIC ROOTS
  16. Junjulas, Craig, 1952- Psychic Tarot : illustrated wit 133.324 JUN
  17. Kraft, Dean. Portrait of a psychic healer / 615.8520924 
  18. Levine, Frederick G. The psychic sourcebook :   how  133.3 LEV
  19. Lungina, Tatiana. Wolf Messing :  the true story  133.8 LUN
  20. Lyons, Arthur. The blue sense : psychic detect 133.8 LYO
  21. Mishlove, Jeffrey, 1946- The roots of consciousness : ps 133 MIS
  22. Montgomery, Ruth Shick,  A world beyond : a startling me 133.9013 MON
  23. Moody, Raymond A. Elvis after life :   unusual ps 133.9013 MOO
  24. Murphy, Michael, 1930 (S The psychic side of sports / 796.01 MUR
  25. Ostrander, Sheila. Psychic discoveries behind the  133.8 OST
  26. Pascal, Francine. Psychic sisters J PAPERBACK
  27. Pike, James Albert, Bp., The other side; an account of m 133.9 PIK
  28. Rhine, Louisa E., 1891- The invisible picture : a study 133.8 RHI
  29. Roberts, Jane, 1929- The God of Jane : a psychic man 133.93 ROB
  30. Roberts, Jane, 1929- Psychic politics : an aspect ps 158.1 ROB
  31. Rogo, D. Scott. Our psychic potentials / 133.8 ROG
  32. Sanders, Pete A. You are psychic :   the Free so 133.8 SAN

      [I DO endorse this book by Sanders, as well as his "free-soul"
       course.  The book is also available in many bookstores.]

  33. Schwartz, Stephan A. The secret vaults of time : psy 133.80926 SC
  34. Stearn, Jess. Adventures into the psychic. 133 STE
  35. Stearn, Jess. The miracle workers; America's 133 STE
  36. Stearn, Jess. The search for a soul; Taylor C 129.4 STE
  37. Stein, Diane,   1948- Stroking the python :  women's  133 STE
  38. Steiner, Lee Rabinowitz, Psychic self-healing for psycho 616.8916 STE
  39. Tanous, Alex, 1926- Is your child psychic? : A guid 133.8 TAN
  40. Targ, Russell. The mind race : understanding a 133.8 TAR
  41. Targ, Russell.  Mind-reach :   scientists   look  133.8 TAR
  42. Tart, Charles T., 1937- Psi : scientific studies of the 133.8 TAR
  43. Taylor, John Gerald, 193 Science and the supernatural :  133.8 TAY
  44. Terr, Lenore,   1936- Too scared to cry :   psychic t 618.928521 T
  45. Time-Life Books. Psychic powers /  133.8 PSY
  46. Time-Life Books. Psychic voyages /  133.9013 PSY
  47. Wylder, Joseph Edward. Psychic pets : the secret life  156.4 WYL
