
Dear Friend,

.    I just had to send a note to tell you how much I love you and
care about you.  I saw you yesterday as you were walking with your
friends.  I waited all day hoping you would want to talk with me also. 
As evening drew near, I gave you a sunset to close your day and you
never came.  It hurt me, but I still love you because I am your
friend.

.    I saw you fall asleep last night and I longed to touch your brow.
So, I spilled moonlight on your pillow and your face.  Again I waited,
wanting to rush down so that we could talk.  I have so many gifts for
you.  But you awakened late the next day and rushed off to work.  My
tears were in the rain.

.    Today you looked so sad, so all alone.  It makes my heart ache
because I understand.  My friends let me down and hurt me so many
times too.  But I love you.  Oh, if you would only listen to me.  I
really love you.  I try to tell you in the blue sky and in the quiet
green grass.  I whisper it in the leaves on the trees and breathe it
in the colors of the flowers.  I shout it to you in the mountain
streams and give the birds love songs to sing.  I clothe you with warm
sunshine and perfume the air with nature's scents.  My love for you is
deeper than the oceans and bigger than the want or need in your heart.

.    If you only knew how much I want to help you.  I want you to meet
my Father.  He wants to help you too.  My Father is that way you know.
Just call me and talk with me.  I have so much to share with you.  But
I won't force you.  I'll wait because I love you.

.    Your Friend,      JESUS

Computers for Christ - Chicago
