    _______________________________________________    _________________
    \_   __  \_    \ /  \ /  \_    \ |   __/  ____/    \  |  \|  |   __/
    _|   |/   /  =  \|       |/  =  \|  /  |  ___/_ _  |  |      |  /___ _
    \________/___|___\__|_|__/___|___\_____|______/|_| \__|__|\__|_____/|_|
======================== "The name speaks for itself!" ========================

                     "Snap, Crackle, Pop!  Bell Krispies."
                            ú Summer 2000 Edition ú

                           http://surf.to/damage_inc
                            damage_inc@disinfo.net
===============================================================================

Behold.  Your wait is over.  It's here... the most ominous list ever unleashed.
In conjunction with Blamerica Phreaky Industries, we're proud to announce the
arrival of the Damage, INC. Phreaky Field Phreaking List Summer 2000 Edition.
It's bigger, it's bolder, it's cooler than ever and it has more toll free
numbers than you can shake a stick at.  And of course, it's still damn phreaky.
So hold onto your hats folks because this is going to change everything.  It
ain't just another list of numbers.  Indeed, it's much more than that.  It's a
revolutionary compilation of useful, working numbers that'll surely make anyone
in possession of them the very envy of their friends.  Yeah, that's right.  But
that's not all.  It's not just the ultimate list for all of the K0d3z Kidz out
there.  Nor is it solely for the diehard field phreaks that exist only in small
numbers now.  It's for literally anyone that's interested in it.  Meaning, it's
released for everyone to use, regardless of the group or category that you fit
into.  Hell, more than a few lazy, disgruntled Bell workers have been known to
peruse through it instead of reading their boring technical manuals.  :)

Needless to say, this list is different from all of the rest.  Its uniqueness
should be evident throughout.  As it's updated, grows and improves it will
eventually become what it was meant to be, fulfilling its destiny to be
world renowned as the most complete, amazing, electrifying list ever created.
It's beyond damn phreaky.  It's the phreakiest!  :)

The old Bell recorded message that instructs callers to consult their 800
directory is almost obsolete... now that the Phreaky Field Phreaking List exists
to serve the masses for free.  In fact, it has countless numbers that aren't
listed and cannot be found in *any* 800 directory.

We've removed the list of telephony/phreaking sites since I no longer have the
time to keep it updated.  Check the links page on our web site if you want a
list of quality sites to visit.

As always, we've included a Phreaky Field NPA Reference that covers all of
North America and a Phreaky Field International Codes Reference.  Both lists
were created by Damage, INC. and are updated with each new edition of the
Phreaky Field Phreaking List.

If you're down with Damage, INC. and you think this project is dope, here's how
you can contribute.  Search, scan, scrounge and dig in dumpsters for numbers.
Identify them properly.  Then send them to damage_inc@disinfo.net so that they
can be included in the next edition.  Credit is always given to contributors.
But no prizes are awarded to the person that sends in the most numbers.  And if
you are under 18, get your parent's permission first before becoming involved
with this particular project.  :)

- Blackie Lawless ú Damage, INC.
"The phreakiest!"
