:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
:   Earth's Dreamlands    :  Info on: RPG's,  :(313)558-5024 : area code    :
:RPGNet World HQ & Archive: Drugs, Industrial :(313)558-5517 : changes to   :
:  1000's of text files   :  music, Fiction,  :InterNet      : (810) after  :
:   No Elite / No porn    :   HomeBrew Beer.  :rpgnet@aol.com: Dec 1,1993   :
:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                 THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO AD&D TECHNOLOGY
 
                    FOR ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS
 
                                   BY
 
                             REID BLUEBAUGH
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                   @ COPYRIGHT 1992 by REID BLUEBAUGH
 
  The following guide is the property of its author, who hereby states
 that he retains the copyright. You may distribute it at will, provided
   that nothing in the guide, this notice, or any of the credits are
     altered in any way; and that you do not make a profit from it.
 
 Advanced Dungeons and Dragons, AD&D, and TSR are registered trademarks
   of TSR, Inc.. Use in no way implies permission on the part of the
    owner, nor is to be construed as challenge of these trademarks.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                           TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
Initial Reactions To The Guide
Preface
Figuring Out Techno-Items
Cimarron Six-Shooter
A Story of Fyre and Smoak
Sixguns & Sorcery
Weaponry - Past & Present
High Technology Items
Ghostbusters
Non-Weapon Proficiencies
Rogue Kit: Technologist
Predator
Alien
Terminator
Magic-Items
Albus Ater Ante Magicus Metallum
Suggested Reading
Special Thanks
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                     INITIAL REACTIONS TO THE GUIDE
 
 
"An excellent job, Reid. It's thorough, interesting, and definitely
useful."
                                             -- A.R.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                                PREFACE
 
 
    This informative guide is to give a DM some rules for introducing
technology in an AD&D game. The consequences of doing so is not
discussed in this guide because it is discussed thoroughly in the
articles that are listed in the "Suggested Readings" section.
     Since players shouldn't automatically know how a highly technical
item works immediately, "Figuring Out Techno-Items" gives a few systems
to allow characters to analyze any technical item.
     This guide will take you through various new weapons starting with
a modified hand crossbow to a laser gun.
     "Cimarron Six-Shooter" gives you the gun feel without having to
introduce gunpowder or worse things. Now a character can be a cowboy.
     The 2nd edition introduced the arquebus into AD&D, unfortunately
it has many flaws that "A Story of Fyre and Smoak" will correct and
make realistic. This information can be used as a replacement of the
arquebus or in an adventure to Earth when firearms were introduced to
the medieval era.
     Some DMs may want characters to enter Earth's old west. If the DM
has the Boot Hill RPG, he can convert Boot Hill characters to AD&D
characters using "Sixguns & Sorcery".
     "Weaponry - Past & Present" provides information for guns from the
old west to modern day Earth. Jumping into the future, a DM can sling
characters into a high tech adventure using the information in "High
Technology Items". For a more novel approach to undead killing,
"Ghostbusters" gives interesting items.
     "Non-Weapon Proficiencies" offers some things that may be of use
to gun-slingers and their ilk.
      "Rogue Kit: Technologist" gives a kit for players of a character
who hates magic. This definitely goes against the grain of AD&D, so it
should be very fun to play.
     Monsters that uses technology is interesting and famous movie
creatures are listed in game terms in the "Predator", "Alien", and
"Terminator".
     No guide would be complete without a few "Magic-Items". And for
fun, "Albus Ater Ante Magicus Metallum" provides something interesting
for DMs.
     For the most part, the information enclosed will have been play-
tested and in a workable form. In others, you may have to make further
adjustments to fit the ideas into your campaign. All rules are optional
and whatever is needed by the DM should be used. It is suggested that
you at least try to use everything and see how it goes. If it works
well then use it, if not get rid of it. In any case, I would be
interested in knowing the results and any changes you've made.
     This material is the fruit of my labor with special assistance
from a few people who are acknowledged in the "Special Thanks" section.
     For those that do receive this guide, I ask that the material is
unchanged. If you have any ideas, suggestions, comments, criticisms,
additions, recommendations, or complaints; I would be very interested
in hearing them. The only way the guide can get better is for everybody
to contribute in one form or another. At the very least I would be like
to be informed of the usefulness of the guide. All help would be
appreciated. Because I plan to make continuous updates, I would
appreciate that people do not make the guide available via FTP sites
because they tend to accumulate old out-of-date versions.
     I would appreciate that my name as well as those in the Special
Thanks section are not removed, changed, or altered since we are the
ones who deserve credit our names should remain with the guide. Of
course I can't really stop anybody from doing what they want. I just
ask that you respect those who made this guide possible because I'm
sure that they will continue to make great material for AD&D.
 
                                             Reid Bluebaugh
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                       FIGURING OUT TECHNO-ITEMS
 
 
                            Dragon Technique
 
 
     In the absence of someone to instruct the character in a techno-
item's use, a character may attempt to puzzle out it out on their own.
To do so, a player rolls on the appropriate Investigation Tables given
herein. Then he rolls a 1d10 for each round the character spends
puzzling out the item. Following the directions in the Table and
starting at Start. The following modifiers apply to each roll (all
modifiers are cumulative):
 
     Intelligence less than 10.................................... +1
     Intelligence greater than 14................................. -1
     Similar object seen in use................................... -1
     Object has been explained by someone familiar with it........ -2
     Operated similar object previously........................... -2
 
 
INVESTIGATION TABLE: Weapons
 
Start
1-6  go to B
7-8  go to C
9-0  go to A
 
A
1-4  go to B
5-7  go to Start
8-0  DISCHARGE!
 
B
1-5  Finish
 6   go to Start
7-8  go to A
9-0  DISCHARGE!
 
C
1-5  go to B
6-0  go to Start
 
 
Discharge - weapon goes off, injuring the user or some nearby person.
(If both results are possible, then 50% chance of each.)
 
 
INVESTIGATION TABLE: Simple Non-Deadly Items
 
Start
1-5  go to C
6-8  go to A
9-0  go to E
 
A
1-4  go to B
5-0  go to Start
 
B
1-5  go to C
6-0  go to A
 
C
1-4  go to D
 5   go to A
 6   go to Start
7-8  go to B
9-0  go to F
 
D
1-3  Finish
4-5  go to B
6-7  go to F
 8   go to C
9-0  Item Destroyed
 
E
1-4  go to Start
5-8  go to C
9-0  go to F
 
F
1-4  go to C
5-8  go to E
9-0  Item Destroyed
 
 
INVESTIGATION TABLE: Complex Non-Deadly Items
 
Start
1-6  go to C
7-8  go to A
9-0  go to F
 
A
1-3  go to C
4-6  go to B
7-0  go to Start
 
B
1-4  go to D
 5   go to C
6-0  go to A
 
C
1-5  go to D
6-7  go to B
8-9  go to A
 0   go to Start
 
D
1-4  go to E
5-6  go to C
 7   go to B
8-0  go to I
 
E
1-3  Finish
4-5  go to D
6-8  go to J
9-0  Item Broken or Destroyed
 
F
1-3  go to C
4-6  go to Start
7-8  go to G
9-0  go to H
 
G
1-4  go to D
5-6  go to C
 7   go to F
8-0  go to I
 
H
1-4  go to G
5-8  go to F
9-0  go to I
 
I
1-4  go to D
5-6  go to G
 7   go to H
8-0  go to J
 
J
1-5  go to E
6-7  go to I
8-0  Item Broken or Destroyed
 
 
     Weapons consist of all death-dealing devices. Simple non-deadly
items consist of motorcycles, radios, televisions, flashlights, etc..
Complex non-deadly items consists of automobiles, computers,
audio/visual systems, electronic equipment, etc..
 
 
                            Gamma Technique
 
 
     Unless a character acquires a techno-item from someone willing and
able to explain how it works, or the character has previously used or
seen in use a techno-item just like it, the character won't know how to
use a newly-acquired techno-item... let alone its purpose. The
character may try to figure out what the techno-item is and how it
works by using the following procedure. Each attempt at figuring out a
techno-item takes 1d4 turn. There is no limit to the number of tries a
character can make, but only one character at a time can try to figure
out a techno-item. One character's progress (or lack of) in this
regard, doesn't affect another character's chances figuring out the
techno-item.
      The DM should follow these steps when a character is figuring out
an item;
 
     1) Get the techno-item's complexity (given as a letter).
 
     2) Using the item's complexity, find the Start Number, Die Roll,
     and Damage on the Techno-Item Complexity Table. Do not give
     players any of this information.
 
     3) The DM rolls one die for the item and one for the character
     trying to figure it out. The DM uses the type of die listed in the
     Die Roll column for the item's die. The character's die is 1d12
     for humans and demi-human characters, and 1d10 for humanoid
     characters. For every intelligence point above 15, modify the die
     roll by +1. For every intelligence point below 6, modify the die
     roll by -1.
 
     4) The die roll result for the item's die is added to the number
     listed in the Start Number column. The die roll result for the
     character's die is subtracted from this number. This total result
     will be a new Start Number for use in future attempts (if any and
     if possible) for this character to figure out the item.
 
     5) If the total result is less than or equal to 0, the character
     has figured out what the item does and how to operate it. If the
     total result is equal to or greater than the start number plus the
     first number in the Damage column, then the item breaks (unless it
     discharges). If the total result is equal to or greater than the
     start number plus the second number in the Damage column, then the
     item discharges if possible, doing an amount of damage equal to
     the second number in the Damage column (doesn't break however). A
     character can keep trying to figure out an item until he succeeds
     or it breaks.
 
 
TABLE: Techno-Item Complexity
 
Complexity     Start Number     Die Roll     Damage
    A                5            1d4         3/*
    B               10            1d6         3/*
    C               15            1d8         3/7
    D               10            1d8         2/3
    E               20            1d10        3/9
    F                5            1d6         1/2
    G               25            1d12        4/9
    H               30            1d20        6/*
 
    * an item of this complexity cannot do any damage to the characters
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                          CIMARRON SIX-SHOOTER
 
 
     The information presented here is taken from DRAGON #176
The Voyage of the Princess Ark. The story is an excellent example of a
western setting in a D&D world, but without the intervention of
technology. Note that the information presented here has been modified
for AD&D; see the article for D&D information.
 
     The six-shooter is a weapon. This little wonder was originally
created by Smithy, a clever watchmaker, and Westron, a crossbow expert.
They came up with the idea of a very light crossbow that could shoot
darts. The true innovation lay, however, in the use of a spring
mechanism that rearmed the weapon after each shot. A S&W hand crossbow
can hold up to six small darts. Recocking the crossbow required only a
quick motion of the hand, which could be done in the same round the
weapon is fired. It takes a full turn to load another six darts into
the weapon's handle.
     Unfortunately, the six-shooter has always been a fragile weapon
that easily jams. A to-hit roll of 1 or lower, after modifiers are
applied, causes the dart to jam inside the weapon, requiring one round
to clear and rearm the device.
     Nowadays, a six-shooter costs 800 silver pieces (including a
leather holster, the hand-crossbow itself, and 18 darts). The hand
crossbow has encumbrance of 25 cn. An extra supply of 18 darts cost 50
silver pieces. Some notorious sharpshooters use depleted cinnabryl
darts, which add a flat 10' to all ranges and cause an extra hit point
of damage. These special darts cost 200 silver pieces each.
     The proficiency and specialization rules in the Player's Handbook
do not apply to the six-shooter so disregard them. If a character isn't
proficient in the six-shooter, he suffers a -5 to hit penalty. If the
player devotes a weapon proficiency to this weapon the character earns
a basic mastery of the weapon. For each additional slot, the player
moves up to the next mastery. Note mastering a six-shooter isn't
limited to the fighter class and any class can continue to devote
proficiency slots to the six-shooter. The following table shows the
advantages to mastering the six-shooter:
 
 
TABLE: Cimarron Six-Shooter Table
 
Mastery        Ranges     To Hit Bonus   Damage
Basic        50/100/150        +0        1d4
Skilled      60/100/150        +1        1d6
Expert       70/110/150        +2        2d4
Master       80/110/150        +3        2d6
Grand Master 80/110/150        +4        3d6
 
     Two six-shooters can fired at the same time, one in each hand,
provided they are both armed at the end of the previous round. Apply a
-2 penalty to hit on both sides.
     At the Skilled mastery or better, the user may acquire non-weapon
proficiencies related to the six-shooter's use. Each proficiency
requires 1 non-weapon proficiency slot. They are as followed:
 
 
 
REID COMMENT: The six-shooter weapon is a great way to give a campaign
a western feel without worrying about the dangers of putting gunpowder
or firearms in AD&D. A character could be influenced by a western book
from another dimension and thus become obsessed with molding a life
around it. It isn't as far fetched as it seems. A Star Trek episode
dealt with a world that was based on a gangster book. Most of our own
civilized world is based on the bible as other civilizations have there
own key books. So a character if not a civilization with an obsession
to mimic the old west would be great. The "The Voyage of the Princess
Ark" story is great for combining AD&D with the Old West and if your
hesitant to consider doing this then I suggest you read this wonderful
article. Just look how this statement flows: The fighter finds in the
strongbox a dusty collection... Time Life Books: The Old West. Possibly
better would be a magic cube that displays old western shows and
movies. A character that thinks he's John Wayne, a character who lives
the life of Bonanza, or worse he's the last ranger the Lone Ranger...
give it a chance it might be fun.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                       A STORY OF FYRE AND SMOAK:
 
               NOTES TOWARDS ACCEPTABLE FIREARMS FOR AD&D
 
                    Copyright 1992 Bryan J. Maloney
 
 
Introduction
 
     By now, everybody is aware that the 2nd edition AD&D game has
taken a nod towards the possibility of firearms by including the
"Arquebus" in the Players' Handbook and by setting firearms in their
Forgotten Realms package. Unfortunately, TSR's attempt at introducing
firearms has only further demonstrated their general level of
incompetence regarding military history and military technology to a
wider audience.  They made a substantial error in adding firearms to
AD&D, which could have been easily prevented had they done historical
research adequate for a high-school term paper.
 
History
 
     The arquebus proper was NOT, by any stretch of the imagination a
"primitive" firearm. It actually requires a great deal of technological
sophistication and centuries of experience with gunpowder-ish weaponry
to come up with such a device. Real-world history, without magic to
impede the progress of gunpowder weaponry, took nearly 200 years from
the introduction of gunpowder in Europe to the production of something
that could be called an "arquebus".
     Furthermore, TSR decided that they had no need to actually look
into realistic ranges, rates of fire, etc.. Instead, the "arquebus"
they present was obviously invented out of whole cloth, with no
rational relationship to any other weapons, etc.. Therefore, presented
here is some compiled data on firearms more appropriate for most AD&D
campaigns.
     What is an appropriate "first generation" firearm? The earliest
European use of gunpowder historically was not for personal weaponry.
Instead, gunpowder was used to power siege devices known as "bombards".
They took a full day to place and could only be fired two or three
times a day safely. However, they could hurl stones which were borders
of magnitude larger than most mechanical siege engines. Plus, they made
a terrifying noise. These bombards were also called (in English)
"gonnes" (pronounced "gon-ess"; the singular was spelled "gonne" and
was pronounced "gon-eh"). Eventually, someone came up with the idea of
miniaturizing things, thus producing the "hand-gonne". This was the
primary form of personal gunpowder weaponry for at least the first
generation of widespread gunpowder use in Europe.
   The hand-gonne was nothing more than a miniature cannon, with a rod
on the rear to hold it. Larger versions had a sort of "mounting" stick,
which one stuck into the ground and used as a swivel to steady. They
were unreliable, inaccurate, and dangerous, but they produced a
terrifying noise, and were MUCH easier to learn to use than either bows
or crossbows. Furthermore, they scared horses, which meant that a
non-noble army could really wipe up the field with knights.
     Kings liked them because gonne-men were cheaper to train and
supply than were either long-bowmen or cross-bowmen. They could then
outfit an army with pike and gonne-men and let their damned knights go
whistle.
     Anyway, the hand-gonne was the personal firearm of earth's Middle
Ages. If one is to introduce firearms into a pseudo-medieval setting,
it is far more appropriate than later, more advanced forms.
     Before we get into the descriptions of the gonnes, I should point
out that the gonne was a MILITARY weapon paramount. It was most
effective in a massed volley. It was not until the invention of the
wheel-lock or the flintlock centuries later that firearms even began to
challenge sharp steel for one-on-one fights. This doesn't mean that it
would be useless, just that a gonne is not the all-powerful weapon that
a modern firearm is today.
 
Game Conversion
 
     The first thing to consider when dealing with firearms is just how
to classify them as weapon proficiencies. They are easier to use than
any other missile weapon (except thrown), but they are rather nasty to
deal with, smelly, dirty, etc.. The DM is advised to make them
available to Warriors and Rogues (but not to any sort of nobly,
knightly or extremely "honorable" package/character class because
gonnes are a COMMONER'S weapon) as standard weapon proficiencies. The
proficiency includes knowledge of loading, cleaning, unjamming, care,
etc..
     After this the DM needs to consider the ammunition. At the time of
hand-gonne use, it was more common for a shooter to cast his own
bullets from ingot lead as to purchase them. One would buy loose
powder, but it would be stored separately, since each shot would have
to be loaded separately. Furthermore, it is easier to partition metals
by weight than by any other means, so primitive firearms were usually
built around calibers which corresponded to X balls per pound of lead.
This is how these gonnes were designed.
     This will also make ammunition costs and other information easier
to handle, since one merely needs to set a price per pound of lead and
price per ounce of powder, then allow the players to keep track of
usage.
     Anyway, the calibers of ammunition, their weights, and loads are
as followed:
 
 
          Lead Balls     Powder Loads
Caliber   Per Pound      Per Ounce
  .39         80             42
  .42         64             33
  .46         50             26
  .49         40             21
  .53         32             16
  .59         24             12
  .62         20             10
  .67         16              8
  .74         12              6
  .78         10              5
  .84          8              4
  .93          6              3
 1.06          4              2
 
 
     The hand-gonne is quite a weapon. It will misfire at least 15% of
the time. On a "to hit" roll of 2 or less means that it just went
fizzle. On a natural 1, the gonne blows up -- the weapon's damage is
inflicted on the wielder.
     A gonne has to be held with one hand, preferably steadied on
something, while the other hand applies a slow match to the open
touchhole. If it rains, forget it. If it is foggy, forget it. If a
handgonne is not steadied upon something, the character should have a
-2 "to hit" for a light handgonne and a -5 for a heavy handgonne.
     Handgonne range characteristics are pretty even, and are
summarized below:
 
 
                   Point
Type               Blank   Short   Med     Long    Very Long
Light handgonnes   0-10    11-30   31-40   41-70   71-100
Heavy handgonnes   0-20    21-60   61-110  111-160 161-220
 
 
     Ranges are in yards. Point Blank range gives a +5 bonus "to hit".
Short Range has a 0 modifier. Medium range is -2, long is -5, and the
Very Long range is -10. Beyond Very Long, the modifier "to hit" is -20.
(The half-damage and maximum damage ranges of a gonne depend more on
its ammunition than on its general size, so they are listed with the
individual weapons.)
     The first list is of light handgonnes, which correspond to modern
pistols. They are designed for one-handed use, and might have a higher
rate of fire. In any case, they are lighter and smaller than heavy
handgonnes.
     Rate of fire presents a particular problem for AD&D, since a
completely unskilled person can clean, load, and VERY CAREFULLY aim one
of these things every two minutes. Heavy hand-gonnes can be fired every
three minutes WITH EXCRUCIATINGLY CAREFUL AIMING TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
 
 
Light Handgonnes
 
Caliber   Damage       1/2D   Max    Wt.   Cost
  .39     1d6/1d8      220    1600    1    300
  .39     1d6/2d4      220    1600    3    320
  .39     1d8/1d10     220    1600    3    340
  .42     1d8/1d12     220    1600    4    350
  .46     1d8/1d12     220    1600    3    350
  .46     1d8/2d6      220    1600    4    370
  .49     2d4/3d4      220    1600    5    380
  .53     2d4/2d8      220    1600    5    400
  .59     1d10/4d4     220    1600    6    430
  .62     1d10/3d6     220    1600    7    450
  .67     1d10/2d10    220    1600    8    480
  .74     1d10/3d8-1   440    3800    9    520
 
 
Heavy Handgonnes
 
Caliber   Damage       1/2D   Max    Wt.   Cost
  .53     1d10/4d4     220    1600    7    300
  .53     1d10/3d6     220    1600   10    310
  .59     1d10/2d10    220    1600    9    330
  .62     1d12/2d12    220    1600   13    380
  .67     1d12/4d6     220    1600   15    410
  .74     1d12/3d8     440    3800   12    390
  .74     1d12/3d10-1  440    3800   17    450
  .78     1d12/4d6+1   440    3800   13    430
  .78     1d12/3d10    440    3800   19    490
  .84     2d6/4d8      440    3800   21    530
  .93     1d12/4d8     440    3800   18    510
  .93     2d6/3d12     440    3800   25    600
  .93     2d6/3d12+1   440    3800   32    620
  1.06    2d6/4d10+1   880    7000   31    700
  1.06    2d6/5d6      880    7000   40    750
 
 
     Caliber is in inches. Damage is for small & medium creatures and
then for large creatures. 1/2D and Max are ranges in yards. Note that
the half damage ranges are longer than the effective accuracy of the
weapons. This is common with large-bore firearms. The ball can keep
velocity, but the weapon is hard to aim properly. Weight is in pounds,
cost is in silver pieces.
 
 
(Acknowledgment goes to Greg Porter and his work 3G3, which helped
immeasurably in converting mundane measurements to gameable terms.)
 
 
 
REID COMMENT: If you allow gunpowder and primitive firearms in your
campaign then this is the way to go. Presently, a character has a wide
selection of swords, pole arms, and bows but can only take the arquebus
as a firearm AND it isn't to spectacular. If your going to let a
campaign go in this direction, then use the rules presented here. They
are much clearer and historically accurate and allow more freedom for
the players.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                           SIXGUNS & SORCERY
 
 
Introduction
 
     In the 1st edition Dungeon Masters Guide (p. 112-113), there are
rules for converting Boot Hill to Advanced Dungeons & Dragons and visa
verse. Unfortunately, a D&D character transported to Boot Hill must
follow the Boot Hill rules, which could be very deadly (and difficult
for the players to understand). Therefore, these rules allow easy
conversion of Boot Hill NPCs without converting the D&D player
characters. Also, the rules use D&D combat rules for ease of use. This
allows a DM to expand adventures to locales other than Boot Hill. One
excellent example of this would be THE CITY BEYOND THE GATE adventure
in DRAGON #100.
     These rules are a modification of rules found in the 1st Edition
Dungeon Masters Guide, Dragon #100, the Boot Hill Game Book.
 
Boot Hill Shooters
 
     Converting a Boot Hill character is handled as follows:
 
Strength     - as shown, except 19 = 18/50 and 20 = 18/75
Intelligence - use 3d6 to determine
Wisdom       - use 3d4 to determine
Dexterity    - 6 base +1 per 10% speed rating (max. 16)
Constitution - use 3d6 to determine
Charisma     - use d8+4 to determine
 
     Each Boot Hill character is a fighter. His level is equal to his
gun fight experience. hit dice, hit points, saving throws, THAC0, and
such are determined by his level like normal D&D characters. Thus,
Jesse James would be a 12th level fighter and benefit as one.
 
Armor Class for the American Man
 
     Armor class is 10 for Boot Hill characters before dexterity bonus,
etc.. However in modern times, D&D characters could come in contact
with S.W.A.T. teams or terrorists who wear modern day body armor which
could yield a low armor class.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                       WEAPONRY - PAST & PRESENT
 
 
     There was/is a multitude of weapons in the past and present. Table
1 lists a nice span of weaponry without getting out of control. DMs
should make changes or additions as he feels will best suit his
campaign.
     Fire Rate is how many shots the weapon can fire per round. Numbers
in parentheses represents double barrels. Supply is how many bullets
can be fired from the gun before it needs reloaded. Reload Time is the
time needed to load the weapon before the weapon can be fired. Weapon
Speed Modifier is the number that is added to initiative.
     Table 2 shows range and the range modifiers to THAC0. Table 3
lists a description of Weapon speed.
 
 
TABLE 1
 
                      Damage    Fire            Reload
Weapon              S-M /  L    Rate   Supply   Time     W.S.M.
.38 revolver        1d8 / 1d6    4      6       1 rd.     +2
9mm pistol          1d8 / 1d6    4      8       5 seg.    +2
Derringer           1d4 / 1d4    1(2)   6       1 rd.     +4
Fast draw revolver  1d8 / 1d6    3      8       1 rd.     +2
Rifle               2d6 / 1d10   2      2       7 seg.    +4
Sawed-off shotgun  1d12 / 1d6    1(2)   1(2)    2 rd.     +6
Scatter gun         1d8 / 1d6    1(2)   1(2)    2 rd.     +5
Shotgun            1d10 / 1d8    1(2)   1(2)    2 rd.     +6
Submachine gun      2d4 / 2d4    20     20-50   5 seg.    +1
 
Other hand guns     1d8 / 1d6    3      6-8     1 rd.     +4
Other shoulder arms 2d4 / 1d6    3      2-4     1 rd.     +4
 
 
TABLE 2
 
                         Range               Range Modifier
Weapon               S     M     L           S     M     L
.38 revolver         6    12    18          +3    +1     0
9mm pistol           6    12    18          +3    +1     0
Derringer            1     3     6          +2    +1     0
Fast draw revolver   3     7    15          +3    +1     0
Rifle               11    20    35          +3    +2     0
Sawed-off shotgun    2     6     9          +5     0    -2
Scatter gun          2     4     8          +1     0    -1
Shotgun              4     8    13          +2     0    -3
Submachine gun       7    15    20          +5    +1    -1  *
 
Other hand guns      5    10    15          +3    +1     0
Other shoulder arms 10    20    35          +2    +1     0
 
* Increase range modifiers to +8 (S), +4 (M), and 0 (L) if
  fire is traversed across target.
 
 
TABLE 3: Weapon Speed Modifiers
 
1 - Whoosh!
2 - very fast
3 - fast
4 - average
5 - below average
6 - slow
7 - very slow
 
 
OTHER WEAPONS
 
Flame Thrower - Range: A line 10'-60' long. Does 8d8 points of damage
(save for half). Jellied gasoline burns for 1d6 rounds.
 
 
GRENADES, ETC.
 
Dynamite                         4d10 pts. damage
Vial of Nitro.                   6d10 pts. damage
(Civil War) Percussion Grenade   6d10 pts. damage (+1d10 Fragmentation)
WWII Hand Grenade                8d10 pts. damage (+1d20 Fragmentation)
Modern Hand Grenade              6d6 pts. damage
 
 
MINES
 
Land Mine - Range: 0. Does 1d10+10 points of damage upon contact.
Anybody within 3 feet suffer 1d6 fragmentation damage.
 
 
 
REID COMMENT: Letting these more elaborate weapons in a campaign can be
dangerous. I suggest that a DM put the players in another dimension or
time where he experience these things. This way the AD&D campaign world
doesn't get greatly effected. Of course, these weapons wouldn't kill a
world because most will run out of ammunition thus the weapons become
useless and lose their novelty. The DM just has to make sure that
characters don't get access to a great supply of ammunition or allow
the characters to manufacture their own.
     I suggest you read the articles listed in the "Suggested Readings"
section for much input on the advantages, disadvantages, dangers, whys,
and hows of technology in a campaign.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                         HIGH TECHNOLOGY ITEMS
 
 
SECTIONS:      Energy Sources
               Weapons
               Phaser
               Medical Supplies and Equipment
               Miscellaneous Items
               Control Transmitters
 
----------
 
                             Energy Sources
 
 
      Techno-items usually require an energy cell to function as in the
case of hi-tech weapons. Below is a list of the various energy cells.
 
Atomic Energy Cells (A) - These are bulky, heavily-shield nuclear
batteries weighing 12 kilograms. they will hold a charge for 1000 years
if unused. Once dead, they may be recharged by replacing their Fuel
Cylinder. Replacement cylinders may be found in military supply depots
or a few nuclear power plants and factories.
 
Chemical Energy Cells (C) - These rechargeable batteries come in many
shapes and sizes. They lose their charge after 1 to 6 years of disuse.
 
Hydrogen Energy Cells (H) - Similar to Chemical Energy Cells, but are
less common. They don't lose their charge from disuse.
 
Solar Energy Cells (S) - These are Chemical Energy Cells fixed to a
Solar Panel so they recharge in sunlight.
 
Energy Cell Charger - When connected to a power source (line or
broadcast), this will recharge and Chemical or Hydrogen Energy Cell.
 
----------
 
                                Weapons
 
 
Type                Range    Damage    Value    Supply    Power    Code
Laser Pistol       3/ 6/ 9     5d6     30000      10        H       D
Laser Rifle       10/20/30     6d6     36000       6        H       D
Mark I Blaster     5/10/15     1d6      6000       8        H       D
Mark II Blaster    5/10/15     2d6     12000       8        H       D
Mark III Blaster   7/14/21     3d6     18000       8        H       D
Mark IV Blaster    5/10/15     4d6     24000       8        H       D
Mark V Blaster     7/14/21     5d6     30000       6       2H       D
Mark VI Blaster    7/14/21     6d6     36000       6       2H       D
Mark VII Blaster   7/14/21     7d6     42000       6       2H       D
Mark VIII Blaster  7/14/21     8d6     48000       6       2H       D
MKI Disruptor      5/10/15     1d20    20000      20        H       D
MKI Disrup. Rifle 10/20/30     2d20    45000      30        H       D
MKII Disruptor    10/20/30     2d20    40000      30        H       D
MKII Disr. Rifle  20/40/60     4d20    85000      40        H       D
MKIII Disruptor   20/40/60     4d20    80000      40        H       D
MKIII Disr. Rifle 40/80/120    6d20   125000      50        H       D
MKIV Disruptor    40/80/120    6d20   120000      50        H       D
MKIV Disr. Rifle 80/120/240    8d20   165000      60        H       D
Needler            2/ 4/ 6      *       4000      10        C       D
Stun Ray Pistol    1/ 2/ 3      *       5000      10        S       D
Stun Ray Rifle     3/ 6/ 9      *       7500       6        S       D
 
 
Electroflail         -         2d6     12000       -        S       D
Energy Mace          -        10d6     60000       -        C       B
Paralysis Rod        -          *       3500       -      CSH       D
Stun Whip            -          *       4000       -        C       D
Light Saber          -         8d6     48000       -        H       C
Vibro Dagger         -         3d6     18000       -        H       C
 
Chemex Grenade       -        10d6      4000       -        -       F
Energy Grenade       -        12d6      4500       -        -       F
Fragment Grenade     -         5d6      2500       -        -       F
Poison Gas Grenade   -          *       2500       -        -       F
Stun Grenade         -          *       3000       -        -       F
Tear Gas Grenade     -          *       2000       -        -       F
 
CDP A                -        10d6      6000       -        -       F
CDP B                -        12d6      7000       -        -       F
Concussion Bomb      -          *       7500       -        -       F
Fission Bomb (C)     -        40d10    17000       -        -       F
Fission Bomb (D)     -        60d10    17000       -        -       F
Fusion Bomb          -        15d10    10000       -        -       F
Matter Bomb (Alpha)  -        15d6      8000       -        -       F
Matter Bomb (Beta)   -        30d6     20000       -        -       F
Matter Bomb (Delta)  -        60d6     50000       -        -       F
Micro-Missile     10/30/50     7d6     30000       -        -       F
Mini-Missile      30/60/90    20d10    40000       -        -       F
Neutron Bomb         -        20d10    15000       -        -       F
SDP                  -         6d6      3000       -        -       F
Surface Missile 1000/2000/4000  *      70000       -        -       F
 
 
Notes:
 
     Range is in tens of yards. Each range category (Short, Medium, or
     Long) includes attacks from distances equal to or less than the
     given range. The modifiers for range are -2 for medium range and
     -5 for long range. * means that the item has special effects that
     are outlined in the equipment descriptions. Value is in gold
     pieces. Supply is the number of shots the power cell is good for
     before becoming useless. Power is the number and type of power
     cell the weapon is powered by. Code is the complexity used in the
     Gamma Technique.
 
 
Missile Weapons
 
     These include a variety of weapons. All are designed to project a
beam, missile, or ray of some sort at a target in range. All need power
and ammunition to function. Hi-Tech missile weapons can be fired twice
per round and a normal attack roll is made.
 
Laser Weapons - Each shot sends a laser beam at the target.
 
Mark Blaster Weapons - Each shot sends a sonic blast at the target.
Mark I-IV are pistols and Mark V-VIII are rifles. The wielder of sonic
missile weapon doesn't make a normal "to hit" roll. Instead, the target
makes a saving throw vs. paralyzation to avoid being hit. This saving
throw is made at a bonus of +2 if the weapon is used at medium range,
or +5 if the target is at long range.
 
Disruptors - Each shot sends a disruption beam at its target. A
disruption beam disrupts cells in living matter causing damage to
creatures eternally. All disruptors have two settings: Standard, High
Power. Standard is as in the table. High Power allows a rate of fire of
2 shots per round, a +1d10 damage, and drains double the amount of
power (i.e. two charges).
 
Needler - A clip for a needler contains 10 small needles coated with a
paralysis drug (save vs. poison or become paralyzed for 5d4 rounds).
The energy cell will be used up after 30 shots. This weapon is
completely soundless.
 
Stun Ray Weapons - A successful shot does no damage, but knocks the
victim out for 1d20 rounds.
 
 
Energy Weapons
 
     Some weapons combine elements of melee and missile weapons. All
are close combat weapons that can't be thrown and need power.
 
Electroflail - A flail made of mithril and charged with electricity.
The slightest touch cause a severe shock. The Solar Energy Cell is good
for 40 minutes.
 
Energy Mace - This energized club is powered by a Chemical Energy Cell
good for 20 minutes.
 
Paralysis Rod - This 1 yard long rod may be powered by a Chemical
Energy Cell (good for 4 hours), a Solar Energy Cell (good for 8 hours),
or a Hydrogen Energy Cell (good for 12 hours). When brought into
contact with exposed flesh (not protected by clothing, armor, etc.), it
overloads the victim's synapses, causing unconsciousness and paralysis
lasting 4d4 hours. The victim can't be awakened prematurely.
 
Stun Whip - The Chemical Energy Cell in this item is good for 30
minutes. A target hit by one of these 3 yard wire whips becomes
unconscious for 5d4 minutes.
 
Light Saber (Vibro Blade) - The handle of this device houses a the
energy cell good for 20 minutes. When in use, a blue-etched force field
forms a 1 foot blade that will cut through almost anything (DMs
discretion).
 
Vibro Dagger - Similar to the vibro blade, but with a blade of only
6 inches long, the vibro dagger's cell is good for 30 minutes.
 
 
Grenades
 
     These are exploding devices usually delivered by hand. A character
should use the standard grenade-like missile combat rules. Before
throwing the grenade, the character activates it by "pulling the pin"
on it. Once the pin is pulled, the grenade automatically explodes the
next round. All characters within 9 yards of an exploding grenade are
suffer the effects of the grenade. Damage is halved if save vs.
paralyzation is made by victims.
 
Chemex Grenade - Creates a chemical explosion (complete with lung-
searing flame) within the area.
 
Energy Grenade - Releases blast of energy within the area.
 
Fragment Grenade - Covers the area with jagged metal chards.
 
Poison Gas Grenade - Spews poison gas throughout the area that hangs in
the air for 1d6 rounds (-2 if area is windy). Characters must save vs.
poison or suffer 3d6 points of damage for each round exposed to the
gas.
 
Stun Grenade - Spews paralysis gas that acts like poison gas, but hangs
in the air for only 1d4 rounds. also, characters are knocked
unconscious by the gas for 5d4 rounds taking no damage if a save vs
poison is failed.
 
Tear Gas Grenade - Spews tear gas that hangs in the air for 1d6 rounds
(-2 if area is windy). Characters make a save vs poison. Failure
indicates that the character suffers a -2 "to hit" and suffers a -1
penalty to armor class. The effects last for 3 rounds.
 
 
Bombs & Missiles
 
     This category includes demolition charges, small warheads, and
sophisticated missiles. These items have any type of fusing device the
DM wishes (proximity, impact, heat, time delay, etc.). Most lack
delivery and guidance systems and have to be carried to the desired
spot and detonated. All characters within area of effect suffer damage.
Damage is halved if save vs. paralyzation is made by victims.
 
CDP A (Concentrated Damage Pack Type A) & CDP B (Concentrated Damage
Pack Type B) - A canvas backpack full of plastic explosives designed to
be placed by the bearer against a structure to be destroyed. Blast
radius is 30 yards for type A and 60 yards for type B.
 
Concussion bomb - A canister 10 inches long and 3 in diameter with
small "hooks" that fit various delivery systems. Has the effect of a
stun grenade, but has a 60-yard blast radius and a cloud duration of
2d6 minutes.
 
Fission Bomb - A black steel sphere 15 inches in diameter. Has a 1-mile
blast radius. Come in 2 versions: Clean and Dirty. The dirty bomb
causes radiation (DM decides the effects of radiation).
 
Fusion Bomb - A 50-inch diameter black steel disc. The blast radius is
60 feet.
 
Matter Bomb - A disc similar in appearance to a fusion bomb. Comes in
alpha, beta, and delta types. The alpha has a blast radius of 9 yards;
the beta has a blast radius of 30 yards; and the delta has a blast
radius of 60 yards.
 
Micro-Missile - A 3-inch long missile that comes complete with its own
plastic handgrip/launcher. It does a blast radius of 15 yards.
 
Mini-Missile - A 15-inch long missile in its own disposable, shoulder-
held launcher. It has a blast radius of 30 yards.
 
Neutron Bomb - A 18-inch in diameter duralloy sphere. This bomb has a
blast radius of 300 yards. The bomb only damages living beings; it
doesn't harm equipment, vehicles, or buildings.
 
SDP (Small Damage Pack) - A canvas bag of plastic explosives. The blast
radius is 12 yards.
 
Surface Missile - A slender 3 yards long cylinder, usually fixed to a
military installation, or vehicle, and directed by computers and radar
at the launch site. There are 3 types of surface missiles: neutron,
fission, an concussion. The first two are simple bomb of the
appropriate type attached to a surface missile. The latter type will do
30d10 points of damage to anyone in a 100-yard blast radius.
 
----------
 
                                 Phaser
 
 
     There are two types of phasers: Phaser I and Phaser II. Phaser I
does not have a handle and can fit easily in the palm of the hand. The
hydrogen energy cell in a Phaser I holds 50 charges. Phaser II is
larger and has a handle. The two hydrogen energy cells in a Phaser II
holds a total of 100 charges.
 
     Type             Range        Charges
     Phaser I        5/10/15          50          Range is given in
     Phaser II      10/20/30         100          tens of yards.
 
 
     A phaser is different than other weapons in that it has a setting
controls that allows various forms of damage.
 
 
SPREAD:
 
Normal - The wielder makes a normal "to hit" roll.
 
Wide - The wielder doesn't make a normal "to hit" roll. Instead, the
target makes a saving throw vs. paralyzation to avoid being hit. This
saving throw is made at a bonus of +2 if the weapon is used at medium
range, or +5 if the target is at long range.
 
 
SETTING:
 
     The number following the setting is the number of charges that
will be drained from the battery per hit. Wide-spread attacks will
drain twice the number of charges per person affected. The setting are
as followed:
 
Stun (1) - Target must make a successful saving throw vs. wands or be
rendered rigidly immobile for 5d4 rounds. A save indicates that the
stun didn't affect the character this time. The ray from this setting
is blue.
 
1 (2) - Target suffer 1d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage. The ray color from settings 1 through 10 are various shades of
red (1 being light red, and 10 being dark red).
 
2 (3) - Target suffer 2d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
3 (4) - Target suffer 3d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
4 (5) - Target suffer 4d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
5 (6) - Target suffer 5d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
6 (7) - Target suffer 6d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
7 (8) - Target suffer 7d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
8 (9) - Target suffer 8d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
9 (10) - Target suffer 9d10 points of damage, save vs. wands for half
damage.
 
10 (12) - Target must save vs. death magic or die.
 
Maximum (14) - This setting causes matter to vanish. It affects even
matter (or energy) of a magical nature. Disintegration is
instantaneous, and its effects are permanent. Anything within the 10' X
10' X 10' cube is obliterated. A thin, green ray (no wide-spread
attack) causes physical material affected to glow and vanish leaving no
trace.
 
Overload (all) - This setting causes the phaser to build up energy that
surpasses safety parameters until it explodes destroying the phaser.
Phaser I has a blast radius of 25 yards and does 5d10 points of damage
to living things in the blast radius. Phaser II has a blast radius of
50 yards and does 5d20 points of damage to living things in the blast
radius.
 
 
----------
 
                             Powered Armor
 
 
Type                      AC      Value       Power    Code
Energized Armor            2      75000         A       E
Inertia Armor              2     110000        2A       E
Powered Alloyed Plate      2     120000         A       E
Powered Plate Armor        3     100000         A       E
Powered Assault Armor      1     150000        3A       E
Powered Attack Armor       1     150000        2A       E
Powered Battle Armor       2     150000        2A       E
Powered Scout Armor        2     150000        2A       E
 
 
     All powered armor consists of a sealed suit with a power source
that makes it function like a "second skin" when worn. Energized Armor
and Inertia Armor may function without a power source (but it will be
impossible to make jet-assisted jumps). Other types won't function
properly without a power source. They will still protect the wearer in
most cases, but their force fields (if any) won't work and the
character won't be able to move while in them. Gas doesn't penetrate
functioning powered armor since there is a 72-hour oxygen supply inside
that works independently of the armor's power system. All suits have a
2-way radio, a Medi-kit, ultraviolet and infrared sensors, and an audio
system that automatically dampens loud noises and amplifies soft noises
(wearer can make out individual sounds at 4 times the normal distance).
 
Energized Armor - The suit's jet-pack lets the wearer make jumps of 180
yards. It is powered by a single Atomic Energy Cell good for 40 hours.
 
Inertia Armor - Suit has a partial force field that can absorb up to
half of the damage (25 points of damage per round) inflicted on the
wearer. It also has a jet-pack for use in making jumps of up to 180
yards. It is powered by two Atomic Energy Cells good for 60 hours.
 
Powered Alloyed Plate - The single Atomic Energy Cell (good for 44
hours) gives this armor the ability to move under its own power while
worn. The wearer moves as if unburdened while carrying an additional 30
pounds and as if burden when carrying 60 pounds over his normal amount.
Powered Plate Armor is an improved version using a single Atomic Energy
Cell good for 52 hours.
 
Powered Assault Armor - The three Atomic Energy Cells in this suit are
good for 48 hours. While in operation, the suit provides a force field
that absorbs all damage inflicted on the wearer (50 points per round
maximum). In addition, the wearer moves as if unburdened while carrying
an additional 90 pounds and as if burden when carrying 180 pounds over
his normal amount. The wearer moves at quadruple speed and can make 30
yard jumps. Built in the finger of each hand is an independently-
powered laser pistol and built into the helmet is a micro-missile
launcher with a 20-missile clip. Built in the back of the suit is a
grenade launcher (90 meter range) with a 15 grenade clip containing
assorted grenades. The suit's powered fists do 9d6 damage.
 
Powered Attack Armor - The two Atomic Energy Cells in this suit are
good for 40 hours. This type is the same as the Powered Assault Armor,
but its force field absorbs 40 hit points maximum per round and the
wearer moves at triple normal speed.
 
Powered Battle Armor - The two Atomic Energy Cells in this suit are
good for 48 hours. This type of armor contains a force field that
absorbs all damage inflicted on the wearer (maximum of 30 hit points).
The wearer moves as if unburdened while carrying an additional 60
pounds and as if burden when carrying 120 pounds over his normal
amount. He may move at double his normal speed and make 15 yard jumps.
 
Powered Scout Armor - The single Atomic Energy Cell (good for 56 hours)
gives this armor the ability to move under its own power while worn.
The wearer moves as if unburdened while carrying an additional 30
pounds and as if burden when carrying 60 pounds over his normal amount.
This type of armor contains a force field that absorbs all damage
inflicted on the wearer (maximum of 20 hit points). The wearer moves at
quadruple speed and can make 30 yard jumps.
 
----------
 
                     Medical Supplies and Equipment
 
 
     These items are labelled with a universal symbol and include
instructions for use (that will be indecipherable to most characters).
The labelling system will let characters easily recognize all types of
medical equipment and supplies once they encounter any example of that
of equipment or material.
 
Accelera Dose - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube of a compound
developed to accelerate healing. Characters who spray the compound
under their skin immediately heal 1d10 points of damage.
 
Cur-In Dose - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube of a substance
that breaks down most chemicals not normally found in the human body.
If taken within 30 seconds of exposure to a drug or poison, the user
experiences no effect from the drug or poison.
 
Interra Shot - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube containing a
sort of "truth serum" that opens the subconscious to direct
interrogation. If affected, the character answers all questions
truthfully for 10 minutes and then forgets the interrogation.
 
Medi-Kit - A 3X6X12-inch metal and plastic box that can be hung on a
belt for transportation. A micro-computer in the unit controls sensors
that analyze medical problems in any subject it scans. The unit is held
next to the skin when a scan is desired. If a character wants the kit
to heal a wound, he holds it over the trauma area. The kit
automatically sutures wounds, injects anti-toxins and antibiotics
(where needed) and even gives simple instructions on how to perform
operations. It will also spray antiseptic dressings on treated wounds.
Kits are powered by a Chemical Energy Cell and keep functioning as long
as their drug banks are full. There are about 4 treatments per drug
bank for each type of problem the kit is designed to handle.
Replacement banks (with built-in power cells) will be found in military
depots and chemical plants. Medi-kits will never inject anyone with a
substance (Accelera Dose, for example) poisonous to the patient. They
heal 1d10+20 points of damage. The average Medi-kit heals 2d20+200
points of damage before exhausting its drugs banks.
 
Mind Booster - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube containing a
compound that enhances metal functioning. The user's intelligence is
increased by 3 for one hour after taking the compound. However, he must
rest for four hours immediately after the drug wears off or he will
permanently lose 3 points from his intelligence.
 
Poison Antidote - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube containing an
antidote for each type of poison. If used on someone within 30 seconds
of exposure to poison, the antidote may save him from damage or death.
Each type of antidote always work for each type of poison. If an
antidote is for another type of poison, it has a 50% chance of working
on the poison the user was exposed to. The chance is modified by +10%
for each level the antidote is above the poison and -10% for each level
below it is below the poison.
 
Stim Dose - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube containing a
special stimulant that doubles the user's speed, increases his
dexterity by 1 and increases strength by 3 for a period of one hour.
The user must rest for eight hours immediately after the dose wears
off.
 
Suggestion Change Drug - A 6-inch long disposable jet spray tube
containing a hypnotic drug that puts the user in a trance for 10
minutes. While hypnotized, the user may be given instructions that he
will follow literally for the next four hours, including instructions
to take orders from another character. Once out of the drug's trance,
the user will only subconsciously remember his instructions.
 
----------
 
                          Miscellaneous Items
 
 
Auto-analyzer/Tricorder - This hand computer/scanner/data transfer
mechanism is most often used to analyze life forms and natural
phenomenon. The character using it must make an intelligence check for
each use to obtain the information he desires, although the DM may
determine that the intelligence check is only needed when seeking a
particularly complex piece of information. If the check is successful,
the player may ask the DM 1-6 simple or yes/no questions.
     The analyzer can also be set up to act as an alarm, with 100 yard
range. The analyzer can work via a computer link-up or with a variety
of data chips that can be inserted.
     The analyzer runs on a Hydrogen Energy Cell that will allow it to
function continuously for 18 hours.
 
Universal Translator - This small computer translates a multitude of
languages. It comes in a variety of forms, sometimes as an item of
jewelry, a small rod, an ear plug, an ear implant transmitting to a
computer elsewhere, etc.. When in use, the device is generally
undetectable (with the exception that the speaker's lips move like he
was in a Japanese martial-arts movie).
     The device works best when languages are preprogramed into it. In
order to use a language not programed into it, the translator must
"derive the language matrix". To derive a basic matrix, the translator
needs to be exposed to the language for several minutes, then as time
progresses the language base will improve.
 
Communications Sender - This is a short range communications device. It
resembles a 20 by 10 by 5 inch black box with a small tv screen in one
side. The Chemical Energy Cell powering the device is good for 40
hours. Messages can be sent or received at a 100-mile range.
 
Communicators - These palm-sized plastic boxes fold out to display a
dial used to direct a signal in any direction. They allow users to
communicate over a 4-mile range. In some cases, communicators will only
respond to signals from other units tied into a particular network.
Each has a Chemical Energy Cell good for 200 hours.
 
----------
 
                          Control Transmitters
 
 
     A control transmitter appears to be a small speaker, with a jack
that connects it to a sonic generator. The device allows commands to be
given to a specific type of creature of animal or less intelligence.
Each time a command is given to a particular type of creature, a 6-
sided die is rolled. If a 6 isn't rolled, the creature obeys its
command. If a 6 is rolled, the creature goes mad and will attack the
users of the device if possible. After the device has backfired, it
cannot be used with the same species again, but functions normally with
other species. Below is a listing of the various transmitters:
 
     Type                Color
     Mammal              red
     Fish                blue
     Insect              yellow
     Reptile             white
     Plant               green
     Robot/Android       black
 
----------
 
REID COMMENT: See the comment in "Weaponry - Past & Present".
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                              GHOSTBUSTERS
 
 
    This section provides some of the more exciting items that
Ghostbusters use. If DMs let players visit Ghostbusters, they can learn
much about undead and how to fight them. Of course, ghostbusting stuff
probably should be handled humorously and lightly. References to ghosts
and specters imply to all forms of undead. PKE stands for Psychic-
Kinetic Energy that is basically the undead life force.
 
 
The Official Ghostbuster's Proton Pack - Small nuclear accelerators,
the proton packs are a Ghostbuster's basic weapon. The wiggly stream
emitted by the proton pack scorches walls, knocks holes through wood
paneling, destroys chandeliers and upholstery - and occasionally even
subdues ghosts.
     Proton packs have two basic settings. The "attack" setting is the
major one. A successful hit by a proton pack's stream does 1d10 points
of damage. The "containment" setting is used to form a proton stream
cage around an undead creature and move it to wherever the Ghostbusters
please. Usually two Ghostbusters must cooperate to use the containment
setting properly, and the undead's hit points must have been reduced to
zero before it can work (or the ghost just zips away).  Usually the
containment setting is used to move a trapped undead directly over a
ghost trap, which is then activated.
     Crossing two proton set on attack results in a catastrophic
explosion. This explosion is so catastrophic, in fact, that crossing
the streams can happen only when done on purpose, or when two
Ghostbusters fire proton packs in the same round at the same target.
     A proton pack has a maximum range of 300 yards.
 
Atmospheric Ionization Analyzer - This device samples ionized traces
left by PKE activity, and can be used to date paranormal occurrences,
sort of like carbon 14 dating is used to date fossils and stuff.
 
Ecto Visor - These spook-finder glasses allow a person to see
ectoplasmic manifestations that are not yet materialized on the super-
etheric plane. In other words, they allow you to see undead, even those
that don't want to be seen. They also eliminate all peripheral vision
and look dumb.
 
Ghost Trap - A small box which stores and transports one subdued
undead. The lid is opened by pressing a foot pedal attached to the box
by a twelve-foot length of tubing. As it opens, the ghost trap produces
a luminous white cone of psychokinetic force which channels the target
undead into the trap. When the foot pedal is released, the trap closes.
It takes a second or two for the field to neutralize the undead's own
ectoplasmic energies, so a specter could zoom away from the trap before
it's sucked inside - unless the containment stream of a proton pack
holds it there.
 
PKE Meter - Psycho-kinetic energy meters are undead-finders, measuring
local PKE valences to discover paranormal activity. When an undead
creature is in the area, pretty lights flash and the PKE meter's arms
raise up high. The closer and more powerful the ghostly presence, the
higher the arms rise and the more insistently the lights flash.
 
Protection Grid - A protection grid is large and immobile. it can
safely store an extremely large number of undead. After many
adventures, it can get full and threaten to collapse, but ant actual
collapse can only occur at the DM's instigation.
 
Spectroscope - This is a boxlike apparatus with an internal chamber
that, oddly enough, has nothing to do with specters. Put something
inside switch on the scope, and make an intelligence check. If it
succeeds, the character finds out the object's chemical composition.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                        NON-WEAPON PROFICIENCIES
 
 
                            # of Slots     Relevant       Check
Proficiency                 Required       Ability        Modifier
Cowboy Cool                     1          Charisma          0
Fan Shooting                    1          Dexterity         0
Fast Draw                       1          Dexterity         0
Hip Shooting                    1          Dexterity         0
Repair Cimarron Six-Shooter     1          Intelligence      0
Speed Loading                   1          Dexterity         0
Sharpshooting                   1          Dexterity         0
 
 
Cowboy Cool - This allows the user to stare down an opponent in a duel
and gain a psychological advantage. On a successful Charisma check by
the user, the opponent suffers a -2 penalty to his next to-hit roll
(and to his next Dexterity check if using the Fast Draw proficiency
below). This proficiency requires two rounds of concentration to take
effect. Cowboy Cool can also be used to negate someone else's attempt
to use Cowboy Cool or to spin one or two six-shooters on one's fingers
without dropping them.
 
Fan Shooting - The user attempts to shoot as many missiles (i.e.
darts, bullets, beams, etc.) as possible within one round. The extent
of success on the user's Dexterity check indicates the number of darts
that can be fired at a given combat round. A successful Dexterity check
allows at least two shots during the same round; if the Dexterity score
was beaten by 3-5 points, at least three shots in a round; 6-8, up to
four shots; 9-11. five shots; and 12 or more, all six shots.  Each
successive shot suffers a cumulative -1 penalty to hit (-1 for the
first shot, -2 for the second,, etc.). Of course, this assumes that the
weapon holds six missiles.
     The first shot occurs when the user should normally be allowed to
fire during the combat round (i.e. initiative). Each successive shot
will then happen in each successive segment. Fast Draw and Fan shooting
proficiencies can be used simultaneously.
 
Fast Draw - Upon making a successful Dexterity check, a user can shoot
before anyone else during a combat round, regardless of the original
Initiative result. If two opponents fight a duel and both use the Fast
Draw proficiency, the one who beats his Dexterity score by the highest
amount gains the initiative.
 
Hip Shooting - The user has the ability to shoot from the hip.  The
proficiency allows the user to shoot faster, adding a +2 bonus to
Dexterity checks made for Fast Draw or Fan Shooting attempts.
Unfortunately, it is less accurate and causes a -2 penalty to hit in
both cases.
 
Repair Cimarron Six-Shooter - On a successful Intelligence check, the
user can repair a jammed Cimarron Six-Shooter. Each attempt takes a
full hour. He may try as many times as needed to repair the weapon. An
unmodified score of 20 causes the weapon to break permanently.
 
Speed Loading - For a specific missile weapon, character cuts reloading
time of weapon in half with no penalties.
 
Sharpshooting - On any to-hit roll of 20 or better after modifications,
the user may make an extra Dexterity check. If successful, the user
designates a a particular spot on a target to be hit by the dart. This
can be used to automatically disarm an opponent or inflict maximum
damage. Sharpshooting cannot be used with the Hip Shooting or Fan
Shooting proficiencies.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                        ROGUE KIT: TECHNOLOGIST
 
 
Description: The technologist is either the fore-runner of a new
technological age or a researcher into a technology long forgotten
(dependant on the DM's campaign world). In any case, he loathes magic
and wants to rid the world of it and bring the world into a
technological age. For this reason, he is considered a rogue in
society, going against the norm (magic).
     He is basically an scientist/engineer with great knowledge in a
specific field (i.e. architecture, mechanical design, smithing, etc.),
but will dabble in anything to help the advancement of technology.
     Technologists must have an intelligence above 15, a wisdom above
13, strength above 12, and dexterity above 12. Although not required,
high dexterity and strength are also useful. They do not get any
experience point bonuses due to high ability scores.
 
Role: A technologist has a great knowledge on numerous, practical
topics that tend to be more valuable than the arcane knowledge of mages
and clerics. He will always insist that technology is the solution to
all problems and will use technology to solve problems.
     A technologist will, of course, try to do a service to everyone by
attempting to get them to use his devices more often thus making
progress towards technological advancement. However, most people will
be distrustful of this technology, and won't use it. The DM should not
allow the technologist to totally reshape the world! Only in extreme
circumstances should his devices be accepted and used for any length of
time (even the scientist gets to save the day!). An example would be
where he saves a starving village by inventing a steel-bottom plow and
new irrigation procedures, that when combined with his new pumping
system, saves the people from slow, painful death.
 
Weapon Proficiencies: Technologists are allowed any weapon used by
thief (except under specific circumstances, see below) and prefer those
that have some degree of complexity in their use or manufacture such as
an arquebus, bow (any), crossbow (any), mancatcher, etc..
 
Nonweapon Proficiencies: Bonus: Engineering, Appraising, Alchemy,
Architecture, Reading/Writing. Recommended: Artistic Ability,
Blacksmithing, Brewing, Carpentry, Gem Cutting, Leather-Working,
Mining, Stonemasonry, Weaponsmithing.
 
Skill Progression: A technologist doesn't have the thieving skills of
Move Silently, Hide in Shadows, Detect Noise, Climb Walls, and Read
Languages. Pick Pockets, Open Locks, and Find/Remove Traps are usually
distributed evenly.
 
Equipment: A technologist is limited to weapons and armor of the thief
class unless they make some technical wonder of their own that is out
of these bounds. For example, they can use any armor of a type that
they have proficiently made (in the time of the campaign, things made
before don't count) because they've spent enough time with that type to
know it fairly well.
     Starting funds are 10d10 x 10 gold pieces.
 
Special Benefits: A technologist has the abilities of a sage. His
knowledge is in a field of study (DMG, page 107, Table 61: Fields of
Study); preferably something pertaining to science. Note, that the
technologist must maintain the resources that normal sages have.
     A technologist can detect the following information when within 10
feet of the particular phenomenon.
 
     Detect secret/concealed doors                     1-2 on 1d8
     Detect grade or slope in passage                  1-5 on 1d6
     Detect new tunnel/passage construction            1-5 on 1d6
     Detect unsafe walls, ceiling, and floors          1-7 on 1d10
     Detect sliding/shifting walls or rooms            1-4 on 1d6
     Detect stonework traps, pits, and deadfalls       1-3 on 1d6
 
Note that the technologist must deliberately try to make these
determinations; the information doesn't not simply spring to mind
unbidden.
     A technologist gains an immunity to illusions as he progresses in
levels. As well as a saving throw, a technologist gets a 5% chance for
each level (no greater than 95%) minus the level of the illusionist to
resist the illusion. Racial adjustments are as followed: Dwarf +10,
Halfling +7, Elf +5, Half-elf 0, Human -5, Gnome -10.
     The greatest and most important ability of a technologist is to
build items of the next time period (i.e. Ancient, Dark Ages, Middle
Ages, Renaissance, etc.). The DM must be aware of what time period the
current campaign is in and what the next one will be. To build an item,
the character must have the proper plans and resources to do it. The
player must submit the idea for approval to the DM. Mainly, the DM must
be sure that the technical item will not influence the campaign world
enough to throw it out of balance. If the DM rejects it, then his
decision is final and the item can't be made. If the DM accepts the
proposal, the character has the knowledge to make the item. Now, the
player must gather all pertinent information on the item (for copyright
purposes of course), if tinker gnomes have to do it then so do
technologists. Then given the proper campaign time and resources, the
item is created by the technologist.
 
Special Hindrances: Obviously, technologists despise magic of any kind
and will never willingly use or partake in anything magical. In fact,
they will attempt to destroy everything magical that they find.
 
Races: Dwarves, with their affinity for the mechanical and lack for the
magical can be technologists. Gnomes also prone to be technologists,
although most gnomes are less capable of rising above being tinker
gnomes. Elves can be technologists, but few are interested. Of course,
humans (half-elves) were born to be technologists (some sages claim
that they will master technology and eventually rule the world after
the demise of all magic).
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                                PREDATOR
 
 
CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any
FREQUENCY: Very rare
ORGANIZATION: Solitary or Tribal
ACTIVITY CYCLE: Any
DIET: Omnivore
INTELLIGENCE: Average to Exceptionally (8-16)
TREASURE: Special
ALIGNMENT: Lawful
NO. APPEARING: 1 (2-8)
ARMOR CLASS: 9 (natural)
MOVEMENT: 12
HIT DICE: based on level
THAC0: based on level
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-6/1-6
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil
SIZE: L (8' tall)
MORALE: Fearless (19)
XP VALUE: Variable
 
     Predators are a technology-using alien race, for whom honor and
battle are the way of life. War is the natural, preferred existence for
most Predators, being the Predator racial philosophy, and it is for
this reason that Predator society stresses physical strength and
fighting skill above scientific achievement. Most Predator scientific
effort goes into developing tools of warfare to augment their natural
abilities and help them in their contests.
     The urge for battle compels this species to comb the Prime
Material Plane searching for challenges. Heat and war draw them to
worlds where they may join the battles they find there in their own
way.
     An adult Predator stands over 7 feet tall, weighing from 200 to
250 pounds. It has a dark green reptilian-type skin, and its face is
nearly indescribably grotesque. They do have two eyes, and a mouth that
is surrounded by teeth and pincers.
     Because of the nature of Predator society and its battle
philosophy, a Predator begins adulthood as a 3rd level fighter. Some
Predators may pursue other avenues such as diplomacy, science, or
politics, but they will always retain their fighter class. All Predator
families maintain a particular primitive weapon in the nature of a
sword, spear, etc. as a symbol of their heritage. Each family member
must be specialized in this weapon.
     Predators receive a +2 to their initial Strength scores and a -1
to their initial Charisma scores. The rest of their statistics are
calculated regularly.
 
Combat: In combat, a Predator will use many forms of technological
weapons and defenses. A Predator will never limit itself to only one
form of weaponry, instead using a combination of missile and melee
weapons. Predators have a vast knowledge of strategy and tactics and
will use this knowledge to the fullest.
     Predators prefer to hunt in an area where some form of fighting
is going on among its prey. This serves to camouflage their stalking,
as well as trim down the number of noncombatants that might get in the
way.
     A Predator is always honorable, within the context of its culture.
They find no honor in killing a defenseless opponent, and their
preference is to hunt the premier warrior of the group they are
trailing. When a Predator is defeated, it accepts that defeat with
grace, and will commit a form of ritual suicide, generally by blowing
itself and its victorious enemy up. This serves the multiple purpose of
erasing the dishonor of losing, destroying an enemy powerful or
resourceful enough to kill one of them, and finally to protect the
secrets of the Predator technology.
     Predators are aware of the existence of magic and its power, but
they are unable to use it. They do respect it, however, and find it a
challenge. For many of them, there is nothing more glorious than taking
the head of a highly ranked mage. Moreover, these beings enjoy
traveling to magical worlds where unusual and unique beasts with
extraordinary powers roam.
 
Habitat/Society: Predators are generally found in hot and humid areas
where some form of fighting is happening, although they may be found
anywhere.
     Predators sometimes travel in groups when they go to other worlds
for their safaris. However, they don't hunt together, believing that
battle is a solitary, personal experience.
     After a successful kill, they will collect the head and other body
parts significant to the victim, return with these to their ship, and
render them down to bone. The bones for the basis of their trophy
collection.
     Although Predators are omnivorous, they prefer to eat raw, red
meat.
 
Ecology: Predators seem to have only one true natural enemy. This is
the insectoid species commonly called simply "Alien". Any other enemies
a Predator might have, are generally made, tracked and killed during a
hunt. They prey on all forms of life, but favor those species with
intelligence, and have a preference for other warrior races.
 
---------------
 
Sample: The Greyhawk Predator
 
CLASS: Fighter                ALIGNMENT: Lawful Evil
LEVEL: 7                      SIZE: L (8')
 
STR: 18/00
DEX: 17
CON: 15
INT: 16
WIS: 10
CHA: 14
 
REGULAR DEFENSE ADJ: -3       MAGICAL DEFENSE ADJ:  0
SYSTEM SHOCK: 90%             RESURRECTION SURVIVAL: 94%
 
HIT POINTS
 
HIT DIE: 1d10                 HIT POINT ADJ: +1
MAX # OF HIT POINTS: 75
 
ARMOR CLASS: -3
 
                         Powered Assault Armor
 
ARMOR CLASS: 0
 
- Powered by three atomic cells good for 48 hours.
- 72 hour gas supply for wearer.
- Ultraviolet and infrared sensors.
- Audio system that dampens loud noises and amplifies soft
  noises (wearer can make out individual sounds at 4 times
  the normal distance). The system can also record sounds and
  play them back.
- Provides a force field that absorbs 10 hit points per round.
- Wearer moves as if unburdened while carrying up to 250 lbs.
- Wearer moves at quadruple speed (i.e. 56).
- Wearer can make 30 ft.  jumps.
 
COMBAT
 
HIT PROB.:          +3
DAMAGE ADJ:         +6
MISSILE ATTACK ADJ: +2
 
MOVEMENT: 11
 
3 attacks/2 rounds
 
THAC0: 14 without hit prob.
 
                             Powered Fists
 
THAC0: 11
DAMAGE: 9d6+6
% KO: equal to damage
 
 
                Shoulder Battle Gun Proficiency (bonus)
 
- The target tracking system gives the user +4 on attack
  rolls with the gun.
 
THAC0: 8
 
- No strength bonuses for hit prob. or damage. Missile attack
  adj. applies.
 
WEAPON         DAMAGE    RANGE   SHOTS     POWER SOURCE
laser           5d6     180 ft.   30       hydrogen energy
needler*         -      180 ft.   10       chemical energy
micro-missile   7d6     270 ft.   15       atomic energy
 
*save vs. paralysis or be paralyzed for 1d20 minutes
 
 
               Single-Weapon Style Specialization (bonus)
 
ARMOR CLASS: -4
 
 
                  Two-Handed Style Specialization (1)
 
- One-handed weapons used two-handed gain +1 to damage.
 
 
                Predator Honor Sword Specialization (2)
 
- Treat as two-handed sword relative to size and damage.
 
THAC0: 10
2 attacks / round
 
                          DAMAGE
                      S-M        L
Single-Weapon Style  1d10+8    3d6+8
Two-Handed Style     1d10+9    3d6+9
 
 
                  Vorpal Hand Disk Specialization (2)
 
- The disk returns to thrower who can only retrieve it from
  the air if he is proficient in this weapon.
 
THAC0: 8
2 attacks / round
 
                      S-M        L
DAMAGE               1d8+8     1d8+8
 
 
                    Claw Blades Proficiency (bonus)
 
THAC0: 11
3 attacks / 2 rounds
 
                      S-M        L
DAMAGE               1d4+6     1d4+6
 
 
                          Net Proficiency (1)
 
- The arm gun contains a clip of 5 nets.
- A successful hit pins the victim. The victim must make a
  successful strength ability check to break free. The victim
  may not attack until the next round.
 
THAC0: 12
 
- No Strength bonuses for hit prob. or damage. Missile attack
  adj. applies.
 
3 attacks / 2 rounds
 
                      S-M        L
DAMAGE               1d4-2     1d4-1
 
 
                       Self-Destruct Neutron Bomb
 
- Once activated, the bomb will exploded in 10d10 seconds.  Everything
within 900 yds. will take 20d10 damage. Any victims are allowed a save
vs. death to half the damage.
 
 
                                Medi-Kit
 
- A micro-computer in the unit controls sensors that analyze medical
problems in any subject it scans. The unit is held next to the skin
when a scan is desired. If a character wants the kit to heal a wound,
he holds it over the trauma area. The kit automatically sutures wounds,
injects anti-toxins and antibiotics (where needed) and even gives
simple instructions on how to perform operations. It will also spray
antiseptic dressings on treated wounds. Kits are powered by a chemical
energy cell and keep functioning as long as their drug banks are full.
There are about 4 treatments per drug bank for each type of problem the
kit is designed to handle. A medi-kit heals for 1d10+20 hit points of
damage. The kit can heal 200 points of damage before exhausting its
drug banks.
 
BACKGROUND: This particular Predator is found on safari on Oerth. There
are plenty of challenging monsters roaming around the planet; not to
mention all the cocky races that roam around looking for war.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                                 ALIEN
 
 
Alien (Warrior)
 
CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any
FREQUENCY: Very rare
ORGANIZATION: Solitary (Hive)
ACTIVITY CYCLE: Any - Prefer darkness
DIET: Carnivorous
INTELLIGENCE: Very
TREASURE: Nil
ALIGNMENT: Neutral
NO. APPEARING: 1-3 (10-100)
ARMOR CLASS: 4
MOVEMENT: 12
HIT DICE: 6+6
THAC0: 4
NO. OF ATTACKS: 4 or 1
DAMAGE/ATTACK: (Claw/Claw/Bite/Tail) 1-6/1-3/1-10/1-12 (Str bonus +8)
               (Smaller Bite) 1-20
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below
SPECIAL DEFENSES: See below
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil
SIZE: M (5-7' tall x 5-7' long; 2-300 lbs)
MORALE: Fearless (19-20)
XP VALUE: 8,000
 
        These are a nasty bit of work that look something like a
bipedal lizard/insect. They are generally larger than human sized, and
in many ways resemble the worst demons of myth and legend, from their
long broad head and mouths full of teeth, along their glistening bony,
armor-hard bodies, past emaciated looking limbs tipped with razor sharp
claws, and finally ending in a long, semi-prehensile tail with a barbed
stinger. They don't weigh as much as they look like they ought to.
 
Combat: The Alien's body is covered with a hard shell or chiton, that
has been compared to steel armor. This chiton is, in turn covered with
an acidic slime that effectively diffuses their heat signature,
rendering them invisible to infravision. They are able to Move Silently
(95%) even while moving at their top, lightning fast speed. They can
Hide in Shadows (95%), and effectively blend into nearly any
background. They can Climb Walls (99%), moving up sheer walls at full
speed. They are able to leap 20' straight up and 50' straight forward.
     Warriors exude an acidic mucous that they use to melt through
obstacles, also their blood is highly acidic. Their acidic mucous
coating does 1d8/rd damage if it remains in contact with the victim,
7while their blood does a 1d6/rd damage.
        Warriors can attack with either or both of their claws, and
against targets larger than themselves all four claws. They can bite
with their Great Mouth, full of hundreds of razor sharp, steel hard
teeth. If their victim is immobilized, either by the tail or the
forelimbs, they are able to attack with their Lesser Mouth, which
shoots from their Great mouth with sufficient force to penetrate a
victim's skull through plate armor. If this attack is successful, the
victim must save versus petrifaction or be stunned for 1d6 rounds while
the Lesser Mouth consumes the victim's brain. Whether stunned or not,
the victim will lose 1 intelligence point per segment, as well as make
a system shock check each segment. If any of these checks fail the
victim dies.
     However, they will rarely use this attack, since Warriors prefer
to leave their opponents alive to act as host for the Queen's larvae.
In keeping with this, the tail attack is a stinging one (save vs.
petrifaction).
     Aliens have no eyes. They can sense other creatures by the
vibrations of their movements in the ground, walls, or air. They have
exceptionally good hearing. Therefore, they ignore invisibility because
they are picking up the vibrations and sound from objects. They can
also sense heat. They can never be surprised, although they surprise
their victims on a roll of 1-9 on a d10.
        Their primary weapons are their speed and their strength.
Rather than stand and fight, they will hit and run, and return later,
each time getting a surprise roll.
 
Habitat/Society: The Warrior is a worker and third in this insect-like
Alien species. The other two branches of the species are the Queen and
the Face Hugger Drone. The warrior performs all labor necessary to
support and protect the Queen. Although they are cunning in battle,
they possess little intelligence or volition beyond what is necessary
for the hive's or their own survival.
 
Ecology: Although they are primarily air breathers, warriors can
survive exposure to nearly any environment for a short time. Their
original environment is not known, but their skills and abilities
suggest a harsh, hostile world of deep cave complexes or thick sunless
jungles.
 
Life Cycle: The Queen lays her "basketball-sized" eggs, and these
become inert, until conditions prove right. It is reasonable to assume
that in their natural environment only a fraction of the eggs hatch,
and because of the hostile nature of the environment there is a high
mortality rate among this species. However, in the presence of a living
creature, an egg will hatch and the "Face Hugger" Drone/larval carrier
emerges.
     This thing will burn though nearly any obstacle, moving quickly on
its spider-like legs to reach a victim. It impregnates the victim, by
planting the true larva inside the living creature's body, usually the
lungs, and fertilizing the larvae with the victim's own genetic
material. The Face Hugger then dies, its purpose fulfilled. The larva
lodged inside the life form remains as it gestates, and grows into a
more mature, viable form.
        When it is ready to "hatch," the creature often explodes from
its host's body. The host will likely provide the original food source
for the infant creature. It will grow to its adult size very quickly,
over the space of a day or two. Because the host provides some of the
genetic material, there is some thought that the body form of the host
will cause minor changes in the final body form of the alien, i.e. with
a human host, the alien will be humanoid, while the host should be
something like a wolf or a dog, it will assume a more quadruped,
wolfish aspect. Regardless, it will still be quite recognizable for
what it is, and none of its stats will change.
 
 
                               WRITTEN BY
 
                              MARC CARLSON
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                               TERMINATOR
 
 
Terminator, T-800 101 series
 
CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any
FREQUENCY: Very rare
ORGANIZATION: Solitary or Tribal (Military)
ACTIVITY CYCLE: Any
DIET: Nil
INTELLIGENCE: Genius (17-18)
TREASURE: Special
ALIGNMENT: Lawful
NO. APPEARING: 1 (2-8)
ARMOR CLASS: -3 (natural)
MOVEMENT: 15
HIT DICE: 20 (160 hp)
THAC0: 0
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-24/2-24 or by weapon
SPECIAL ATTACKS: see below
SPECIAL DEFENSES: see below
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil
SIZE: M (human sized)
MORALE: Fearless (20)
XP VALUE: 20,000
 
 
Terminator, T-1000 series
 
CLIMATE/TERRAIN: Any
FREQUENCY: Very rare
ORGANIZATION: Solitary or Tribal (Military)
ACTIVITY CYCLE: Any
DIET: Nil
INTELLIGENCE: Genius (17-18)
TREASURE: Special
ALIGNMENT: Lawful
NO. APPEARING: 1 (2-8)
ARMOR CLASS: -5 (natural)
MOVEMENT: 40 (45.5 MPH)
HIT DICE: 25 (200 hp)
THAC0: 0
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-24/2-24 or by weapon
SPECIAL ATTACKS: see below
SPECIAL DEFENSES: see below
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Nil
SIZE: M (human sized)
MORALE: Fearless (20)
XP VALUE: 30,000
 
     Although the Terminator is called a "Cyborg", it is really an
Android designed to relentlessly pursue and kill human beings. Although
these androids were originally quite crude, the builders of the
Terminator built upon their earlier mistakes until their killing
machines were indistinguishable from humans, then later shapeshifters
able to perfectly assume the forms of humans.
       The T-800 series is an automaton consisting of a hyperalloy
combat chassis upon which is layered humanoid living tissue. This
tissue consists of hair, skin, flesh and blood. The T-800 resembles
humanity so closely that it even sweats and has bad breath. When this
sheath of living tissue is damaged, however, it begins to die, and
eventually rots away.  They are indistinguishable from normal humans in
outer appearance, though they tend to be imposingly large if male,
coldly feminine if female. Although they appear human, as soon as
something gets in the way of their dictated missions, the true power of
these machines is revealed.
     The T-1000 series Terminators are a technology breakthrough in
liquid metal, with the ability to change the shape of any part or of
the whole body in 30 seconds, besides having the standard abilities of
their predecessor T-800s. They can alter their body's density, and
polymorph to any form that they have come into contact with. They can
polymorph their body parts into simple objects (i.e. edged and blunt
weapons), and can withstand temperatures from -40 degrees Celsius to
1225 degrees Celsius.
 
Combat: With a 20 Strength, T-800s are as strong as stone golems, and
they normally strike at targets with their fists, for 2-24 points of
damage. They are to use any weapon with proficiency. They also have
a +10 bonus to damage done by melee weapons due to their 20 strength
rating. They strike twice a round, once with each hand.
     They have a +4 to Surprise, and are themselves never surprised,
and have a -1 initiative modifier (instead of +3 for medium creatures)
when striking with their fists due to their high strength and dexterity
(treat as 18).
     T-800s have the tracking ability equal to a 19th level Ranger (2nd
ed.) or a 25th level (1st ed.).
     T-800s have the ability to mimic any voice or sound perfectly
after hearing the original once, although they may have some trouble
with details such as vocal idiosyncracies.
     They have infravision and ultravision with a range of 300 feet.
Because of their extremely powerful vision, hearing, and other
detection methods; magical illusions are also easily recognized as
such (+10 to saves vs. 5th level or better illusions).
     They are programed to use any weapon with total proficiency.  Due
     to the technological nature of the T-800s, most spells have no
effect on them. All hold spells, charm spells, sleep spells, spells or
psionics that affect the mind in any way, will not work on them.
     Normal fires and most magical fires will have no effect on T-800s
except to burn away their fleshy outer covering. Meteor Swarms or other
extremely hot fires similar to the breath weapons of Very Old or older
Dragons have a chance of melting the quite durable skeletal structure
of Terminators, which is made from material similar to titanium. This
material can only be damaged by weapons of +3 or greater enchantment.
Cold has no effect, and lightning of 30 or greater points of damage
renders them stunned for one round while they recover their senses.
     The only spells that can effect them are those affecting normally
inanimate objects, like Teleport, Wall of Force, Telekinesis, etc..
Saving throws against these spells still apply, of course.
     Although T-800s are able to repair themselves for 5 hit points of
damage each day (to the endoskeleton), they have discovered that the
spell Mend acts magically to heal some of this damage (1d12+2) for
them. The outer organic shell of Terminators is able to slowly repair
itself if not totally destroyed, at around 4% per day.
 
     The T-1000 series Terminators are a technology breakthrough in
liquid metal, with the ability to change the shape of any part or of
the whole body in 30 seconds (5 segments), besides having the standard
abilities of their predecessor T-800s. They can alter their body's
density, and polymorph to any form that they have come into contact
with. They can polymorph their body parts into simple objects (i.e.
edged and blunt weapons), and can withstand temperatures from -40
degrees Celsius to 1225 degrees Celsius. They are also immune to
critical hits and surprise or attacks from behind.
     The only restriction they have is they never use any objects like
weapons, armor, or magic items, preferring to use their natural
polymorphing ability to make everything they need from the substance of
their body.
     Melee weapons do no damage to them. Low velocity projectiles do no
damage against them while high velocity projectiles do full damage.
Acid does double damage to them. Fire and cold attacks will do normal
damage if their temperatures fall outside the protective range of -40
to 1225 degrees Celsius, otherwise they don't take damage from them
either. Magical attacks do normal damage, unless one of the previous
mentioned defenses states otherwise.
     The T-1000's best ability is regeneration. Half of damage they
take per round from any attacks that do a maximum 6 points of damage
are instantly healed. A fourth of damage they take per round from any
attacks that do a MINIMUM 7 points of damage are instantly healed.
 
      If encountered in a magical world such as Greyhawk, or the
Realms, terminators are likely to have gathered a few magic items from
previous encounters. Items requiring actions to activate (ex.
wands, rods, staves, scrolls, etc.) cannot be used by T-800s. However,
they know the value of these items to others and can use this knowledge
to their advantage. Other magical items that are continuously active
such as +1 swords, rings of protection, etc. work for T-800s and they
will use them if the items will serve a good purpose.
     The DM should make the decision on how a Terminator is armed, but
if he/she needs this information quickly then:
 
     30% Ring of Protection
     20% Ring of Regeneration (only for the human shell)
     20% Other (random beneficial)
 
If armed (60%), the weapons are likely (90%) to be magical. Roll
for types on a d20:
 
     01-05  +1
     06-10  +2
     11-16  +3
     17-19  +4
      20    +5
 
Habitat/Society: The original Terminator robots were built by Cyberdyne
Systems Inc. from the remains of a T-800 that had traveled back in
time, and been destroyed. Later, Terminators were built by a
technologically advanced society of machines as the ultimate killing
machines, weapons to use against those humans that resisting the rule
of the machine. Unfortunately for the rulers of this society, their use
of time travel to affect the past of the human's leaders, "warped"
themselves out of existence. The few terminators that were sent into
the past, and out on missions to explore the alternate universes,
escaped their creators' destruction.
 
Ecology: Terminators neither eat nor sleep.  They are completely free
of emotions, never relenting from their path, following relentlessly
the mission that they were programed for until it is accomplished or
they are destroyed. When that path leads to you, you can run, but you
can't hide.
     Their alignment actually reflects the programming that they were
given by their creators, but Terminators are generally considered
lawful in keeping with their programmable nature, and never straying
from their tasks.
     Terminators will only converse or interact with other intelligent
life if it suits their purposes to do so, perhaps negotiating doing
something in exchange for something else.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                              MAGIC-ITEMS
 
 
Leyden Jar
Manuals of the Terminators Volumes 1-1000
 
 
Leyden Jar - A nice technological weapon that is easy to make is a
Leyden jar charged full of static electricity. The character throws it
and it breaks (it's glass) on contact, doing 1d4+level damage to
everyone within 5 feet.
 
Manuals of the Terminators Volumes 1-1000 - These manuals are on small,
thin, metallic, discs, encoded in some way. A legend lore has a 50%
chance of revealing it to be a information device, but some greater
magic is perhaps needed to uncover the total mass of information. This
compilation is on the construction and animation of T-800 and T-1000
terminators. It contains all the information necessary to make them.
     It will cost 100,000 gold pieces for the construction of a T-800
and 500,000 gold pieces for a T-1000. The cost is mostly the setting up
of the lab. Batteries not included. It will take roughly 1 year to
construct a terminator after all the materials are collected and the
manuals are read (which is very time consuming in itself). The work
must not be interrupted for more than 10 hours per day.
     The constructor should have doctorate degree in Computer
Engineering. If no doctorate degree, cost is doubled and time is
quadrupled. The constructor should also have an intelligence of at
least 18. Anyone who with less than 18 intelligence will most likely
not know the manual for what it is, and even the geniuses would have a
no chance whatsoever to know at first glance.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                    ALBUS ATER ANTE MAGICUS METALLUM
 
 
     A portal to the Positive Material Plane and a portal to the
Negative Material Plane come in contact with one another on The Prime
Material Plane for an a minute instant. This confrontation causes a
massive explosion which will harm every living thing within 100 feet
(100 - 1d20 for every 10 feet away from the center of the explosion Hit
Points of Damage). Furthermore, anybody within 200 feet of the
explosion and not properly shielded will be permanently blinded by the
strange mixture of intense light and intense darkness.
     The residue from this strange occurrence is a bizarre metal. The
sages and scholarly mages refer to this metal as Albus Ater Ante
Magicus Metallum. Common folk prefer the terms A.M. or Threatom. The
metal has only been found deep within the earth. The portal collisions
may take place elsewhere but all evidence (i.e. residue) so far shows
that it is limited to the earth (possibly some strange link to the
Elemental Plane of Earth, but there is no evidence of this). The amount
of the metal found is usually around one ton.
     The metal is unique in that it is the only metal known to change
colors naturally (if it is accepted that the metal is created
naturally). At completely random intervals it will change from pure
white to pure black immediately. Note that each separate piece of the
metal will act independently on its color transformation.
     The best (or worst) quality of the metal is its uncanny ability of
anti-magic; in essence it totally neutralizes and negates magic it
comes in contact with. First, it removes spells and spell-like effects
(including device effects, innate abilities, and  mages' memorized
spells) from creatures or objects comes in direct contact with the
metal (i.e. not through clothing, armor, etc.). Second, it disrupts the
casting or use of these magical abilities if in direct contact with the
person attempting to use the abilities (i.e. mages' and clerics' spells
that are being cast would fail). Third, it destroys all magical items
that don't make a saving throw vs. disintegration for each round it is
in contact with the ability. When an item is destroyed, everybody
within a 50 feet radius must make a saving throw vs. paralyzation or
become blind for 1d6 turns. As anybody could see, this could be a very
dangerous substance indeed.
     The metal can be forged into items by an extremely good blacksmith
or weaponsmith (must have a minimum of 2 slots in the proper non-weapon
proficiency). The metal's melting point is at 2000 degrees Fahrenheit,
but in other aspects it is very similar to iron. The time to forge
items from this metal is quadruple the amount for normal metals.
     (DMs should be careful in introducing such a substance in his/her
campaign. Some players may take advantage of such an item and overlook
the dangers of using it.)
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                           SUGGESTED READING
 
 
Modern Monsters - DRAGON #57, BEST OF DRAGON VOL. V - The legendary Ed
Greenwood takes a look at technology in AD&D.
 
The City Beyond The Gate - DRAGON #100 - An adventure set in modern day
London where characters experience current technology.
 
High-Tech Hijinks - DRAGON #114 - Advice on using technology in your
campaign.
 
The Voyage of the Princess Ark Part 23 Shootout at South Gulch - DRAGON
#176 - A story that is an excellent example of a western setting in a
D&D world, but without the intervention of technology.
 
Sturmgeshutz and Sorcery - BEST OF THE DRAGON VOL. 1 - Gary Gygax takes
a look at AD&D and WWII.
 
Expedition To The Barrier Peaks - AD&D Module S3 - An adventure that
incorporates hi-tech weaponry to make adventurers' lives miserable.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
                             SPECIAL THANKS
 
 
Marc Carlson (BITNET ADDRESS: IMC@VAX2.UTULSA.EDU) for his most
excellent contribution of the alien race and also for his excellent
revisions to the description of the predator race and the terminator
race. Also, he sent high points of his rules he uses for gun (and non-
gun combat), which were used to make the disruptors and other various
weapons. Finally, he sent a multitude of high-tech items that were used
in the guide.
 
Bryan J. Maloney (BITNET ADDRESS: JACOBUS@SONATA.CC.PURDUE.EDU) for his
great article "A Story of Fyre and Smoak: Notes towards acceptable
firearms for AD&D" which was located on the network.
 
Darkheart Soulreaver aka Steven R. Hamby (BITNET ADDRESS: ZA9ZA03@SYSA.
COMPUTING-SERVICES.MANCHESTER-POLY.AC.UK) for his artificier kit that
was transformed into the Technologist Rogue Kit. Also, an unknown
person made a technologist kit that was also used in developing the one
that is presented here and the Leyden Jar item with it.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 

