 
 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 ›±19 Apr 89±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±›?  ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     › A ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     ›  ?ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                 A   ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ∞
 ›           {so ya wanna}    FNORD!    {know, eh?}              Tfile     ﬁ∞
 ›                                                            Distribution ﬁ∞
 ‹‹‹‹‹                                                          Centere    ﬁ∞
 ›?  ﬁ   By: Binky                                              - RoR -    ﬁ∞
 › A ﬁ_____________________________________________________________________ﬁ∞
 ›  ?ﬁ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙ﬁ∞
 ›‹‹‹ﬁ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬁ∞
   ∞∞∞The HQ of SDBP, inc - 415/236/2371∞∞The Electric Pub - 415/236/4380∞∞∞∞
   ∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞∞∞∞Rat Head - 415/524/3649∞∞∞∞∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞



    A fnord is a word that you have, unknowingly since the start of your
"education," been conditioned to associate with fear and unease.  You have
also been conditioned not to notice that they are there.  The institution of
"fnord conditioning" into American elementary education was first done in the
fifties.  Why do this?  Well, if a government or other large organization
wants to have some immediate control of a large crowd, they must use
preconditioned reflexes.  Fear and general unease are always good emotions to
evoke when seeking control.  The use of fnords in news casting can be used to
create either a sense of revultion towards specific people or things (creating
bias without your knowing why) or, applied differently, a sense of urgency and
importance towards the issues focused upon.  The use, or specific lack of use,
of fnords in advertising is the reason that the American public only feels
happy when they are consuming.  It works somthing like this: Everyday the
people are bombarded with thousands of fnords - in newspapers, newscasts,
television shows, radio programs, lectures, texbooks, novels, etc.  Therefore,
as the fnords are creating unease at every turn, a lack of fnords causes great
relief - much like taking off a heavy pack after hiking all day.  The folks at
Madison Avenue realize this all too well, and use it to their benefit.  By
including absolutely no fnords in their advertisements they create a sense of
well being that always occurs, quite inexplicably, whenever their product
is advertised.  After a while poeple begin to associate well being with that
product subconsciously.  Then, next time they are shopping, their subconscious
urges them to buy that which relieves the unease, and they buy the advertised
product.  Sneaky, but very effective.  Watch for them.





X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
