 


 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 ›±06 Jun 90±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±›?  ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     › A ﬁ∞
 ›       The HORK Articles:   Adventures In Horking                    ›  ?ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                 A   ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ∞
 ›           -and-    The Darker Side Of Horking                 Tfile     ﬁ∞
 ›                                                            Distribution ﬁ∞
 ‹‹‹‹‹  Written by: Sir Death, Bud The Budweiser Person         Centere    ﬁ∞
 ›?  ﬁ               &  Doctor Murdock                          - RoR -    ﬁ∞
 › A ﬁ_____________________________________________________________________ﬁ∞
 ›  ?ﬁ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙ﬁ∞
 ›‹‹‹ﬁ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬁ∞
   ∞∞∞The HQ of SDBP, inc - 415/236/2371∞∞The Electric Pub - 415/236/4380∞∞∞∞
   ∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞∞∞∞Rat Head - 415/524/3649∞∞∞∞∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞


                            Adventures In Horking
                              By Doctor Murdock
                         (excerpt from the Rat Manual)



    The other night I was Lurking in one of my favorite Shadows when I saw a
little girl walking by...oh, such a sweet young thing, musta been about 17.  I
saw her little pert nipples pressing up against her tight thin T-shirt she was
wearing and I KNEW she would be my next victim!  So I followed her ever so
quietly in my blanket of darkness.....and on and on she went...with me right
behind her..

Her little firm buttocks wiggled when she walked, with each innocent step she
took.  I knew that Horking this beauty would be quite pleasant.

So on, and on I followed.....

Then, I heard a <cling-jingle>, to my surprise she had dropped her keys!  I
knew this was my chance..for it was a fairly dark street.  When she turned
around to locate them on the ground I saw her face in the light of the
moon....sweet and tender...and oh so young.  My eyebrows formed a V shaped
about my forehead and I began to drool....her eyes came in contact with her
keys
and she bent down to grasp them....I MADE MY MOVE!  I LEAPED from my stalking
position and flew through the air in my Horking formation!!  Hands fully open
in a claw like manner, ready to grasp ANYTHING...legs spread wide, ready to
mount
even the largest of prey, eyes wider than half dollars, so not to miss a
thing, mouth gaping wide, ready to suck any protruding nipples!

AND I LANDED SQUARE ON MY TARGET!  <HORK> <HORK> <HORK> <HORK> <HORK>!!!!!!


Quickly, while she was still unconscious, I slipped back into my awaiting
Shadow....and from there I Lurked on....feeling good, and satisfied...for yet
another young supple, female had been Horked by me.....

It's the smaller things in life...



=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                     The Darker Side of Horking
                           as told by

      Bud The Budweiser Person  -+-  Sir Death  -+-  Doctor Murdock

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

From    :Doctor Murdock #3
To      :All
Subject :Test message...
DateTime:2:24 pm  Tue May 29, 1990 (C:\TAG\MSGS\A-30051.1)




    This is a test message of the emergeny....emergency.....emer.....





I was out in the park one night when I saw her.  This lovely lady walking down
a dark path, dimly lit from an timeworn streetlamp.  Her bosom was full and
firm....her buttox tight and well rounded.  I stalked her from nearby shadows
until I knew the time was right.  I immediately pounced onto her, forcing her
to the ground.  I was on top of her, as she was lying on her stomach.  I
reached around in front of her and unbuttoned her pants.  Fighting and feeding
off her thrashing panic.  Then I pulled then down to her ankles.  She screamed
and squirmed, but I was the more powerful.  I then pulled out and my straight
razor and began to sever her left leg at the torso.  Sawing back and forth as
she screamed bloody murder.  Back and forth, back and forth.  Finally, her
left leg was disunited!  I started on her right.  Slashing and slicing into
her soft, white flesh.  The light was poor but I could feel the fluidic gush
run over my hands and into the earth...which was stained red..  The screams
echoed out into the night.  Wet and thick.  The air was rich with the sweet
smell of her life blood.  At last I managed to completely penetrate the
thickness of her right leg, as it departed from it's lifelong embodiment.
Almost at an unconscious state, she still forced small, yet powerful screams
from herself.  But it didn't matter....my job here was almost done.  I then
slowly mounted her and............







(Note:  Although I wrote this myself.  My head was fed from two of the worlds
      most mentally sick & disordered persons.  None other than:  Bud The
      Budweiser Person & Sir Death.  Although it makes interesting (?)
      reading, I wouldn't recommend trying this.  It isn't to cool.
      Remember....it's a fine line between sanity and dementia.....choose your
      side well.  And remember...

                        Beware the black helicopters!!


                             üââÎ ÊîÅr hÓéÎ(s)


RoR



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
