 
 ÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜ
 Ý±18 Nov 89±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±Ý   Þ°
 Ý                                                                     Ý A Þ°
 Ý                     Amazing Pyramids PYM-1                          Ý   Þ°
 Ý                  The Power Of The Pyramids                      A   ßßßßß°
 Ý                                                               Tfile     Þ°
 Ý         Written By:  Doctor Murdock                        Distribution Þ°
 ÜÜÜÜÜ                                                          Centere    Þ°
 Ý   Þ                                                          - RoR -    Þ°
 Ý A Þ_____________________________________________________________________Þ°
 Ý   Þ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.úúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúúÞ°
 ÝÜÜÜÞÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÜÞ°
   °°°The°Pirates'°Hollow°-°415/236/2371°°The°Electric°Pub°-°415/236/4380°°°°



                               PYM-1


     The following involves the strange unscientific, so-called phenomena
known as "power of the pyramid".  As we all know, pyramids first came into the
light as gigantic monuments and tombs for the final resting place of the
ancient Egyptian Pharohs.


The two most famous were built about 5000 years ago by CHEOPS and GIZA as
giant mausoleums in honor of their afterlife.  These mammoth stone structures
at first seemed extremely elementary in construction, however, for some
unknown reason there exists a mathematical relationship to the height of them
to their perimeter that is the familiar.....Pi=3.1416.....Why is construction
in such a way as to be common to a circle?  The CHEOPS pyramid contains two
and one-half million stone blocks weighing from 2 to 70 tons each.  It's base
square to .00038% and it is 400 plus feet in height.  The blocks fit closer
than .02".  This precision was accomplished by a "primitive" civilization.
Soon after this startling information was known claims were made that their
geometry was also related to the circumference of the earth, records of the
positions of the stars and planets true north and many important predictions
such as the fall of Rome, birth of Jesus, etc.  Pyramids have obviously also
gained their mystical powers from the near perfect preservation of the
Egyptian mummies that was formerly attributed to ancient embalming methods.

Several experiments happen to discover that mummification appeared to be the
result of containment in these triangular solid shapes.  Soon after that razor
blades were found never to dull, flowers lasted longer, food stuffs took
longer to perish, meat became tender, wine tasted better, tobacco remained
fresh, bad coffee became good, water became purer, could cure certain ills,
sleep better, improved sex life, and last but not least, preserved dead
bodies!

The power of pyramids, if it does exist, is no doubt being exploited by
charletans, sooth sayers, witches and fast buck promoters.  If there is
anything to these seemingly mystical powers, you can bet that it will be
completely discounted owing to the obvious false and ridiculous claims.  Many,
no doubt, legitimate, real mystical accounts of power and strange occurrences
are dumped into the toilet due to hard core type exploitation, never to be
properly scientifically investigated.

A test pyramid can be constructed referring to the following sketches:

1. Cut a square base of rigid cardboard or plywood 10" by 10" (or Feet..)

2. Cut four pieces from plastic, stiff cardboard, wood, etc.  Preferably use
clear transparent plastic, etc., (do not use metal).  Fasten together with
tape, RTV, etc., and note that height from peak at top to midsection of base
equals 6" (or feet).

3. Place experimental object to be influenced by pyramid in exact center up
two inches/feet from the base.  Make a small platform placed on a spacer or
wooden dowel to properly position test object.  This position inside the
pyramid is the volume midsection or sort of focal point.  Position pyramid so
that one side runs true north/south.  Experiment using magnetic north/south.

Your experiment pyramid can be proportionately built much larger or smaller,
supposedly producing equally good results.

                                                              .
                                 /\                           .
    PYRAMID                    /    \                         .
                             /        \                       .
                           /            \                     H
                         /                \                   e
                       /                    \                 i  6" (or feet)
                     /                        \               g
                   /                            \             h
                 /  Object ---> ()                \           t
               /              ------                \         .
             /                 |  |                   \       .
           / 2"(feet) Dowel -->|  |                     \     .
         /                     |  |                       \   .
       /____________________________________________________\

                  ........ Base 10" (feet)........


  Good luck!

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
