
                            The Land of Else
                            by Doctor Murdock
                                08/08/89  

 
================================================================================


Ok....soooooo......i like colors.....everything is slow!  my fingers gallop
 and gallop and i'm a color too!!!!  haha.  really..i am you know? I am a
color....ok, bye!




From    :Doctor Murdock #2
DateTime:1:51 am  Tue Aug 08, 1989



FORDS RULE!! THE "SOHC" LIVES ON FOREVER!!!! 600+ HP!! Beat THAT, FOOL!
GO MARINES!!!GO MARINES!!!GO MARINES!!!GO MARINES!!!
BACK OFF MAN.....I'M A MARINE!!!   BACK OFF MAN.....I'M A MARINE!!!
BUTT RAPING WHORE BAG!!   BUTT RAPING WHORE BAG!!  BUTT RAPING WHORE BAG!!
SHAWN-DA-LAY!
BOY!   Aren't colors neat?   <think>  <think>beat?

                                street?
                                feet?
                                Meat?
                                seat?
                                heat?
                                peat?
                                aeat?
                                beat?
                                ceat?
                                deat?
                                eeat?
                                feat?
                                geat?
                                heat?
                                ieat?
                                jeat?
                                keat?
                                leat?
                                meat?
                                neato?
                                oeat?
                                peat?
                                queat?
                                reat?
                                seat?
                                teat?
                                ueat?
                                veat?
                                weat?
                                xeat?
                                yeat?
                                zeat?

                                 &

                              RAZBURRY'S!!

Hahahahaha!
!ahahahahaH






Continue your letter ...Editor: (A,C,D,E,H,I,L,N,R,S,?):


RAZBURRY'S!!


See?  I think...and then everything fades away into a soft aqua
colored cloud.  It fades away and then I realize that I am ON that cloud!  And
then I'm not on the freeway doing 100.  And I'm not here think of something
else whilest I type.  And I'm not. So....here I AM.  I AM.  I AM here, I sit.
<think> <think> of something else.  Always thinking of something else when you
think....colors are one thing.....then you think of something
else.........<dot> <dot> <dot>......I80 is the freeway that I wasn't doing 100
on.  Have you ever read Quitters Inc?  By Stephen King?  Neato
story...although I haven't finished it because I was thinking of something
Else.  Fade Fade fade.  Haha.  Here I sit...this is my life...I haven't
finished my Life yet becaaaaaawz....I was thinking of something Else.  What
the fuck is an Else?  <-----  ?????   <titter> <titter>  Titter goes these
little keys at my finger tips whilest my mind goes off into a distant
land.,...on an aqua colored cloud...Why Aqua?  Cawze....Aqua is
Soft....<thinky> <thinky>  <thinky>.......Is reality real?  It can only be
....nevermind...my mind was thinking od something Else...THERE IT IS AGAIN!
Else?  Where is this place Else?  Hmmmmmmm..............I betcha is a big soft
pillowy land thats most likely colored Aqua.  Why is it that you don't see the
colour Aqua in your everyday Life?  Cawze the place Else absorbs it...thats
why!  And it saves the colour Aqua for when you're fading in and Oooout of
Reality.  Course...I've nevber actually Been there.....but I'd like to go.
Else?  Maybe it's only a place that you're mind can go, maybe you can only
THINK your there?  Maybe your Thinking your reading this...and just fuckin
maybe your in Else right NOW!  Maybe.......but you'll never know cawze yuuze
wuz thinking of Something Else.  Maybe it's a Person.  A Lady named Something
Else?  That you mindlessly wan't to Rut until you're blue in the face!
Uhh...Aqua in the face...excuze me.  Something Else.....I once knew Her. WOW!!
 AN EARTHQUAKE!!!!!!  KILLER!!!!!!  Now THAT was neato!  But I didn't actully
feel that because I was Thinking of Something Else.  Hmmmm....that was neat
though....it was like a rivil rivil wave that is slowly riviling across the US
as I think of Something Else....FUCK...I sure wish I could meet this person!!!
 <gulp> <gulp>  "I smoke my stuff and drink my wine" - Led Zeppelin.  So
anyway.....all this shit we call Else doesn't really matter cawze weeze
were thinking of Something Else!  Hmmmmmmmm.....ok, I bet she wears flowers in
her hair.  So that should make her easier to spot.  And she's like a Rainbow!
Hahahaha.  Ok, one final thing and then I'm leaving.  It's neat just sitting
here and watching the yellow colours turn yellow all over again....and then
they turn yellow right our from under your eyes!  See?  The thing
is....Iz....watching them turn Yellow when they're ALREADY yellow!!!  Maybe
it's like a double expouser but since I've never seen one of those I couldn't
tell ya.  ummm....ok....but you have to realize that the true neutral colour
of your/our exitence is Aqua....and I know this cuz it came to me in a vision
whilest I was watching a Yellow wall and thinging of Something Else!!!
Ok...a Quote...:  "I sit in my basement room....with a
needle....<pause>....and a spoon..."  Yeah....so I'm tired of typing, I'm
going to go into my room and stare at something and watch it change colours
and always, constinitly thinking of Something Else....so I'll never know what
I'm doing or Have done...but ti doesn't matter, see?  Cawze It's like
Psychedelic........it's Psychedelic.......sittin on top of a big Aqua coloured
Mushroom.  And then realizing that YOu after all are the worm talking to Alice
and that the Author of her fucking Life wasn't on Opium...cawze YOU were on it
for him..Hahah, yeah...somethin like that anyway......Music contains colour
too...but you have to be Somewhere Else to see that...Hmmm..now theres a
fucking toss....is Something Else a place or a Person?  Wait..Something Else
is a Person (a Lady....with Aqua coloured hair...) and Else is a place.
So....Her name is Something Else and she's fromt he place called
Else.....which is a Aqua coloured land...and is pillowy.....and she's a Virgin
Nymph......a rarity at that.....A magical Virgin Nymph with Aqua coloured
hair.......and Her name is Something Else.  Riding through a million square
mile field of Dandelions on a Zebra....with her Aqua coloured hair flowing in
the breeze......and she rides and rides <gallop> <gallop> <gallup> <gallup>.
And she'll stop if you ask Her...and she'll bring you to Her cloud.  With is
also Aqua coloured and it's in the shape of a Mushroom...a Psychedelic
Mushroom.....and it's the one you've been riding on all along!  Just ask
Alice...when she's ten feet tall....course Alice wouldn't know, cawze she was
thinking of Something Else......see?  Everyones thought is on this Else browd!
 Haha...nah...I'm sure she's a nice Lady.......My fingertips smell like
Budweiser.....................All of this I do has no meaning....or it won't
matter in 10 years...........so I beleive I'll have another
Beer....Year..Beer.....same thang!  Lessie.....I'd say she has a face
like.........none other you've ever seen BUT she has eyes like that chick on
For Your Eyes Only....ya know the Greek lady?  Yeah, like that.  In
fact....you can only see Her eyes amongst her Aqua coloured hair......and you
can never touch Her cawze thats what makes Her special.  You can ask Her a
question but you had better be quick cawze she's gonna Ride On and eventuallky
you'll be thinking of Something Else!!!  See??  She's GONE.....AGAIN!  You
think of Her and then she's GONE....again!  But...it's not bad...in fact it's
kinda soft....an Aqua kinda pillowy soft......you just think of Something Else
all the time...in an endless circle....and you know...that you like
it....cawze it doesn't really fuckin matter......cawze you know you'll see Her
again.....hold on while I gather my thoughts..........Someday when your
walking along.....in a wooded area.....and you come across a gigantic Aqua
coloured Mushroom......I mean gigantic in like I could use the captial letters
GIGANTIC, but it's so big that it dwarfs the letters into lower case....so
when you see I gigantic Aqua coloured Mushroom.....then look at it....and tkae
a little peice (oooo, another rumble from Else!!) off the underside of the
Mushroom and eat it.....and then you'll Journey safely to Else....where these
Earthquakes are coming from....these Earthquakes are from Else becawze Else
senses that I'm talking abou it, maybe?  Don't look at me..that was a
question...   Ok, so......anyway, when you see that big Aqua coloured Mushroom
then you had better stock up!  And don't forget about your friends!  Cawze
Else doesn't care how many peopel you bring, and they DON'T except American
Express!  (excuse me...I had to itch my groin area).  Of course, it sure is an
=> 5 lines left <=  What the fuck?  Doesn't this plave respect a guy trying to
think of Something Else?  Shit....now that pissesssss...piss-s-s-ses es es
es...say that...PI ssssses es.....me off!  So when you see this gigantic Aqua
coloured Mushroom.....you'll be so amazed by it that you may forget to pick
enough for your friends!  So keep attention and at this point don't think of

23/25   :Anything Else!
From    :Doctor Murdock #2
DateTime:2:20 am  Tue Aug 08, 1989



    Now Who the FUCK is ANYTHING ELSE?????  Shit...must be Her brother..... We
won't worry about that though.  So it's best to find some weeds,,,they'll most
likely be Aqua coloured too cawze the ora of this gigantic Shroom tends to
colour everything within it's range and it's range isn't one to tamper with, I
tell ya!  So find some weeds and maker yourself a basket, and with this basket
you can gather enough of the Mushroom for the whole family!  And then you can
all go on a Summer trip to Else!!!!  But please don't forget me....cawze I'd
like to go again...see...you can only stay for awhile and then,,,you're back
into reality (but we don't talk about that place cawze it's bad news, eh?
Course.....just between you and Me....you can always get back to Else from
Reality via the Budweiser Express!  Shhhhh...don't let that out now, ya
hear?)!  Okay...and in Else be sure to go out onto the Million Square Mile
field of Dandelions and find Something Else....and when you find Her, ask Her
what you came for FAST...cawze you'll soon be thing of Her again...when she's
gone!  THINKING is the catch there, you see?  And if I'm not there when you meet Her...tell Her I saHIWDY, MA'AMO6A!!  Cawze all is right when y
our talk ing to Something Else....you always want to be with Her, and always
thing of Her.....but She always is gone.  But theres always ways to get back
to Her but you can never stay forever...but that doesn't matter cawze the
little time you spend with Her is long enough....because then you think of
Something Else and you forgot what the fuck you came for and you're back at
square one.  So the moral of this tory kids, is to just STAY at square
one...once you find it...and thats a whole nother story in itself.  So.....for
those of you that like to venture out of Square One.....you may find yourself
in Else one day where all is Aqua save the Budweiser Cans and the 427 SOHC
parts, that have a colour all their own.  And when you're at this place you'll
want to stay.....but as I've said before you'll soon be thinking of Something
Else...and Her brother Anything Else....whome all live in Else...which is Aqua
coloured and rests on top of an Aqua coloured Mushroom that is gigantic, and
who's that little guy down there with the basket made of weeds picking from
the great Shroom in the woods?  It's YOU, silly!  Haha.  So maybe the little
bits of Mushroom that you get make a latter up to the top of the gigantic
Shroom where Else is located?  Maybe so.  Don't ask me, I'm just an adventurer
of Else myself.....I've met Somehwere Else once too!  You'll like Her...she's
a beauty, she Is.  With Her Aqua coloured hair flowing in the breeze.
  "Say Somewhere...ya got any extra peices of Mushroom that I maight try?"
"why sure.....here....and come back and visit Us anytime time now, ya
hear? And don't forget.......Bring as many as you want and We DON'T except
American Express!  Bye, now!"
  "SEEYA!"
And She rides off into the horizon of the Million Square Mile field of
Dandelions.....and you can see Her ride out of sight but you think you can see
Her Aqua coloured hair flowing in the breeze forever......and then you find
yourself thinking of Something Else.......funny how that comes about....
So...you now have your basket made of Aqua coloured weeds that is filled with
little peices of the gigantic Aqua coloured Mushroom that resides in the
forest...or A forest....and each of these little peices of the larger Shroom
 ...you now have your basket made of Aqua coloured weeds that is filled with
little peices of the gigantic Aqua coloured Mushroom that resides in the
forest...or A forest....and each of these little peices of the larger Shroom
