 


 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 ›±18 May 90±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±_ROR_-_ALUCARD_±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±›?  ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                     › A ﬁ∞
 ›         Doctor Murdock's NETHACK Companion & ToolKit                ›  ?ﬁ∞
 ›                                                                 A   ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ∞
 ›                                                               Tfile     ﬁ∞
 ›       Everything you ever wanted to know about Nethack!    Distribution ﬁ∞
 ‹‹‹‹‹     How to Survive, how to Win, and most of all:         Centere    ﬁ∞
 ›?  ﬁ                 HOW TO CHEAT!!!!!!                       - RoR -    ﬁ∞
 › A ﬁ_____________________________________________________________________ﬁ∞
 ›  ?ﬁ Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, Inc.˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙ﬁ∞
 ›‹‹‹ﬁ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹ﬁ∞
   ∞∞∞The HQ of SDBP, inc - 415/236/2371∞∞The Electric Pub - 415/236/4380∞∞∞∞
   ∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞∞∞∞Rat Head - 415/524/3649∞∞∞∞∞Primary Drop Sites∞∞∞






  INTRODUCTION
  ------------

       How many hours have you put into Nethack?  1 million?  5 trillion?
More?  Well, as for me, I've put in more than I could even imagine myself.
But after all the work, and all the aggravation, it's been worth it.  After
the first time you escape the dungeon with the Amulet, you realize what you've
actually accomplished....and at that time, you understand the full magnitude
of the game.


       BUT -- lets face it, man......a human being can only take SO much.  You
can only take so much stress before your eyeballs pop out.  We've all been
there.  All you wanna do is get a fucking Crysknife.  Not really that hard,
right?  WRONG!!  Because for some reason, you're stuck with the worst luck in
the UNIVERSE.  A fucking Umber Hulk on level 4?????  Hahaha.  Well, I've been
there a zillion times.  But thanx to many hours of hard laborous work, I have
found the secret!  The secret to cheating in Nethack!

  (Note:  I have solved the game without cheating an unknown amount of
          times.  You should too.)



       I don't really encourage cheating though.  You see....I have learned
many valuable secrets that help me survive in this world (the real one, eh?)
by playing Nethack.  And you don't learn SHIT if you cheat.  But I also feel
that after at least finishing the game once with no help, that a person
deserves a chance to explore the dungeon and do all of the things that he has
heard about by reading fortunes in cookies (or reading the rumors file).
Otherwise you end up spending the rest of your existence as a human wondering
what might have happend if you played the Cavewoman and captured a Unicorn.
Am I right?  Fuckin-A buck I'm right.  I know.  I have spent a nice chunk of
my sanity playing this game.  Which I don't consider a game at all, but thats
another story.  So now, I give you the power to become a GOD.  A Deity more
powerful than a hord of Demon Lords.  Yes indeed....


       It is up to you, whether you want to abuse this power or not.  If you
have not yet solved the game, I urge you to hold off from cheating until you
have solved the game at L-E-A-S-T once.  Once at the VERY least.  If you
cannot resist but to cheat without having accomplished this feat, than you
may never gain the proper amount of insanity needed to get through this thing
we call Life.  Insanity, which is by far a precious state of being.  It's your
choice, fellow mortal....




 Now.........on with the show.........




  Files Included:


          LEVELS.1      -  This file contain about 20 Wands of Wishing on
                           level 1, for cheating.

          SKANKLOR.SAV  -  Altered character save file.

          GUIDEBOO.K    -  Extra Reading.  Overall Basis of Nethack.

          SCROLL.WIS    -  Extra Reading.  Lots of Hints.  Note: This file
                           was made for Hack (not Nethack).  Although
                           most everything in this file retains it's value
                           for Nethack, you should know that Nethack has
                           MANY more options in the game than Hack.  And is
                           FAR superior.  So don't waste your time with Hack.

          RECORDS       -  Deaths or Victories from past adventurers.

          TOOLKIT.DOC   -  This file, eh?





     First off, copy the RECORDS file over to your Nethack directory.  This
proves for interesting reading, since it holds all of the deaths of myself and
 a few friends.  You can see how many different ways there are to die in this
game.  By reading the following, I'm sure you have some idea how many hours
I've personally put into the game, and I am still constantly running into new
ways to die.  Such fun!



     Basically, the way you cheat, is by getting an unlimited amount of Wands
of Wishing.  And if you're an experienced Hack, then you know exactly what
that means.  If you're not.....this is what it means:


  The Armor Class of a GOD.  I've managed to get down to  AC -23.

  The highest Strength Possible.   St  18/**

  ALL of the Wands.

  ALL of the Rings.

  ALL Scrolls.

  ALL Potions.

  The most powerful weapon there is.  Which I'm not sure which is for sure.
   I've had a +7 Crysknife, which obviously is about equal to owning a bazooka
   in our world.  But I've also owned a Blessed +6 Sword called Excalibur,
   which the gods gave me.  And that killed EVERYTHING with one blow, also.

  ALL of the Spellbooks.

  All of the Tools.

  ALL of Everything.  YOU get the picture.


    Ok, I'll stop lagging and get on with it.....


=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


HOW TO CHEAT in 345 Simple, and Easy Steps....
----------------------------------------------


1)  Copy the LEVELS.1 file (included in this ToolKit) to any directory other
    than your Nethack directory.  (hard, huh?)

2)   Load up Nethack, choose whatever name of character you want, and
     whatever class you want.

3)   Go down the ladder to the second level.

4)   Use the ! command to Shell to DOS.

5)   Now do a directory in your Nethack dir.  You will notice a file called
     LEVELS.1!  Tuh-dah!  Ya see....Nethack keeps records of your previous
     levels as you go down deeper into the maze.  But if you die, than it
     promptly erases them before existing the game.  But thanx to the Shell
     command in Nethack, we are able to do big, dark, secret things before
     the game erases them.

6)   Delete the LEVELS.1 file in your Nethack dir, and copy the LEVELS.1 file
     including in the ToolKit over in it's place.

7)   Now exit back to the game.

8)   Now, if you've followed all of the above steps, you should be on Level 2
     in the game.  Now simply go back up to Level 1.  You will see a wand a
     couple of spaces down and to the left.  It's not just one wand though.
     It's about 20 Wands of Wishing.  Yiiiippie-Yi-A, eh?

9)   Grab all of these Wands, and head back down to Level 2.

10)  Now you have 20 Wands of Wishing to dispose of as you wish.  If you want
     more (and you will), then before going back up to Level 1, simply Shell
     and repeat the process of copying over the modified LEVELS.1 file, and
     when you go back up to level 1, there will be 20 or so more wands just
     waiting for you.  Neat, huh?


11)  This idea came to me in a dream.  Really.  Have phun.  RoR, man......



=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=




OTHER BIG, DARK, AND SECRET THINGS as Explored by Doctor Murdock
----------------------------------------------------------------


   If you're going to play Nethack without cheating, you will ~NEED~ Luck.
Without Luck, all you will gain is a big headache, and probably knock a year
or so off your life from the stress alone.


   So, in order to get Luck, you must Sacrafice food to the Gods.  Do this
by hitting the # command, and then by typing SA.  If you do this and it says
that you feel Hopeful, or the you are Reconciliation, then you should
Sacrafice more food as soon as you get some extra.  If you Sacrafice food and
then see a Four Leaf Clover at your feet, consider yourself Lucky (heh).  If
you Sacrafice and the food is just consumed in flames, then the gods are
pleased.


   The purpose of Sacraficing Food to the gods, is so you can Pray to them
(use the # command and then P).  If they are happy with you (you make them
 happy by Sacraficing food.  Sheesh, it's just one big viscous circle, eh?),
then they give you alot of neat shit.  Like Blessing your weapons and Armor,
filling your stomach, uncursing items, giving your items, etc, etc.  They
will also "Give You The Hand Of Elbereth!"  And if you are wielding a Long
Sword when they do this, then the sword will be turned into the infamous
Excalibur!!  This sword kicks major ass.  I like it better than the Crysknife,
but that's just because I like the story behind the sword.  They're both
pretty much the same thing.


   Also...throwing gems at Unicorns brings you luck.  Make sure they are Gems
and not worthless pieces of glass.



Here is the Quickest way to SOlve the game once you pretty much hold your own
in the maze...



1)  You will need these itmes:

                      1 potion of confusion
                      1 potion of teleportation
                      1 ring of teleportation control
                      1 dead floating eye
                      1 blindfold
                      1 ring of fire resistance
                      1 ring or scroll of levitation
                      1 pick-axe
                      1 helmet
                      Lotsa Luck...


2)  Wear the ring of teleportation control and the ring of fire resistance.

3)  Quaff the potion of confusion and the quaff the potion of teleportation.

4)  You will then be asked which level you want to teleport to.

5)  Choose level 66.  Once there, and the confusion potion wears
    off.....find the ladder leading upward (it may take awhile).


6)  Once you've found the ladder.  Blindfold yourself and eat the dead
    floating eye.  Now you should be able to see where all of the monsters are
    in this maze.

6a)  Note:  You will always be on the ladder going upward, when you go up a
    ladder.  There are NO down ladders in these lower maze type levels.  The
    only way to go lower is by doing thee above.

7)  Keep climbing up the ladders and ascending the levels until you see the
    Wizard of Yendor  (symbolized with the  1  character) and a dog (which is
    actually a hellhound) in the center of the screen/maze.

8)  (It's a good idea to save your game now) Then make your way over to them.
    They will be in a room surrounded by a lake/moat.  This is considered a
    castle.  You'll need to use your levitation ring or scroll to travel
    across the moat, then hack away at the castle wall with your pick-axe.
    Kill the dog, and the Wizard.  Then get the Amulet and head up to level 1,
    then exit the dungeon.


8a-543232.11)  Not easier said then done.  Beware of the Demon Lords and Demon
               Princes.  They hurt....ALOT.  I've yet to kill a Demon Lord.
               But I haven't tried with my new modified character.  Whom I'm
               sure could knock a Demon Lord into a pile of pregnant goat
               shit.



=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


    The file SKANKLOR.SAV is the save file with my player SkankLord on it.
 He is the product of about 200 Wands of Wishing.  He has about 660 hit
points, the Armor class of a tank, and every needed item.  He can kill ANY
monster in the game by just looking at it....  Check him out....

Have phun, and for more Nethack support, info, etc.....call:


   The Corporate HQ of Shawn-Da-Lay Boy Productions, inc.

                           at

                      (415)236-2371

                       CalinfonIA



                      RoR - Alucard




Hack_On


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
