
                                    _
                                   | \
                                   |  \
                                   | | \
                            __     | |\ \             __
      _____________       _/_/     | | \ \          _/_/     _____________
     |  ___________     _/_/       | |  \ \       _/_/       ___________  |
     | |              _/_/_____    | |   > >    _/_/_____               | |
     | |             /________/    | |  / /    /________/               | |
     | |                           | | / /                              | |
     | |                           | |/ /                               | |
     | |                           | | /                                | |
     | |                           |  /                                 | |
     | |                           |_/                                  | |
     | |                                                                | |
     | |      c   o   m   m   u   n   i   c   a   t   i   o   n   s     | |
     | |________________________________________________________________| |
     |____________________________________________________________________|

  ...presents...                 The Three Cows
                                                    discovered by Lady Carolin

                      >>> a cDc publication.......1990 <<<
                        -cDc- CULT OF THE DEAD COW -cDc-
_______________________________________________________________________________


     This story comes from an old English folktale which Lady Carolin found in
a book of such fairy tales.  We hope you dig this boffo-amazing-groovy bit of
cow lore....
_______________________________________________________________________________


     There was a farmer, and he had three cows; fine fat beauties they were. 
One was called Facey, the other Diamond, and the third Beauty.  One morning he
went into his cow shed, and there he found Facey so thin that the wind would
have blown her away.  Her skin hung loose about her, all her flesh was gone,
and she stared out of her great eyes as though she'd seen a ghost; and what was
more, the fireplace in the kitchen was one great pile of wood-ash.  Well, he
was bothered with it; he could not see how all this had come about.

     The next morning, his wife went out ot the shed, and gasped with
amazement!  Diamond was for all the world as pathetic a looking creature as
Facey - nothing but a bag of bones, all the flesh gone, and half a rick of wood
was gone too; but the fireplace was piled up three feet high with white wood-
ashes.  The farmer decided to watch the third night; so he hid in a closet
which opened out of the parlor, and he left the door just ajar, that he might
see what passed.

     Tick, tick, went the clock, and the farmer was nearly tired of waiting; he
had to bite his little finger to keep himself awake, when suddenly the door of
his house flew open, and in rushed maybe a thousand pixies, laughing and
dancing and dragging at Beauty's halter till they had brought the cow into the
middle of the room.  The farmer really thought he should have died with fright,
and so perhaps he would had not curiosity kept him alive.

     Tick, tick, went the clock, but he did not hear it now.  He was too intent
staring at the pixies and his last beautiful cow.  He saw them throw her down,
fall on her, and kill her; then with their knives they ripped her open, and
flayed her as clean as a whistle.  Then out ran some of the little people and
brought in firewood and made a roaring blaze on the hearth, and there they
cooked the flesh of the cow - they baked and they boiled, they stewed and they
fried.

     "Take care," cried one, who seemed to be the king, "let no bone be
broken."

     Well, when they had all eaten, and had devoured every scrap of beef on the
cow, they began playing games with the bones, tossing them one to another.

     One little leg-bone fell close to the closet-door, and the farmer was so
afraid lest the pixies should come there and find him in their search for the
bone, that he put out his hand and drew it in to him.  Then he saw the king
stand on the table and say, "Gather the bones!"

     Round and round flew the imps, picking up the bones.  "Arrange them," said
the king; and they placed them all in their proper positions in the hide of the
cow.  Then they folded the skin over them, and the king struck the heap of bone
and skin with his rod.  Whisht! up sprang the cow which lowed dismally.  It was
alive again; but alas!  As the pixies dragged it back to its stall, it halted
in the off forefoot, for a bone was missing.

                                "The cock crew,
                                Away they flew,"

                     and the farmer crept trembling to bed.

  _   _   _____________________________________________________________________
/((___))\|The Convent..........619/475-6187  The Dead Zone.........214/522-5321
 [ x x ] |Demon Roach Undrgrnd.806/794-4362  The People Farm.......916/673-8412
  \   /  |PURE NIHILISM..........new # soon  Ripco.................312/528-5020
  (' ')  |Tequila Willy's GSC..209/526-3194  The Works.............617/861-8976
   (U)   |=====================================================================
  .ooM   |(c)1990 cDc communications                              04/03/90-#131
\_______/|All Rights Pissed Away.

