
                                    _
                                   | \
                                   |  \
                                   | | \
                            __     | |\ \             __
      _____________       _/_/     | | \ \          _/_/     _____________
     |  ___________     _/_/       | |  \ \       _/_/       ___________  |
     | |              _/_/_____    | |   > >    _/_/_____               | |
     | |             /________/    | |  / /    /________/               | |
     | |                           | | / /                              | |
     | |                           | |/ /                               | |
     | |                           | | /                                | |
     | |                           |  /                                 | |
     | |                           |_/                                  | |
     | |                                                                | |
     | |      c   o   m   m   u   n   i   c   a   t   i   o   n   s     | |
     | |________________________________________________________________| |
     |____________________________________________________________________|

  ...presents...                 The Krill File
                                                         by O.H. Krill

                      >>> a cDc publication.......1993 <<<
                        -cDc- CULT OF THE DEAD COW -cDc-
  ____       _     ____       _       ____       _     ____       _       ____
 |____digital_media____digital_culture____digital_media____digital_culture____|

Introduction by Don Allen:

     Aside from the William Milton Cooper material, this file is considered to
be the most highly controversial in the field of UFOlogy.  The "author" of this
work, "O. H. Krill" is believed to have been a joint effort of John Grace and
John Lear.  As the story goes, this file was put together (according to sources
close to John Lear) to "smoke out the dis-informants in the field."  For many
of us who have been into this field for awhile, this file is held in low
esteem.  Discussions by UFO "newbies" on this text have often degenerated into
vast flame wars on the various UFO "echoes" of the BBS world, as there might be
some truth in it and possibly a bit of BS.  I will leave it up to you to sort
out which is which.  If there is such a thing as a "black sheep" of a UFO text,
then *this* file would easily qualify.

     Please note: this file is intended to educate people to what is currently
available.  It is for informational purposes only and as such, should NOT be
taken at face value.  There is NO substitute for research and investigation.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

                A SITUATION REPORT ON OUR ACQUISITION OF ADVANCED
                 TECHNOLOGY AND INTERACTION WITH ALIEN CULTURES

                                  JANUARY 1988

                                       BY
                                   O.H. KRILL


                                    ABSTRACT


     Throughout the forty-year period when UFOs have been actively observed in
our civilization, a lot of data has been gathered - data which has often
pointed to aspects of the phenomena that have been suppressed.  As a result of
the suppression and compartmentalization of the information, our culture has
been fragmented into several levels of "reality" which both co-exist and oppose
each other.  Part of our culture does not or will not believe in the existence
of other species; part of our culture acknowledges their existence or the
probability of their existence; part of our culture is actually interacting
with the other species.  These simultaneous realities contribute to the
condition of extreme confusion in which we find ourselves.

     Research into UFOs follows a similar pattern.  Some view the matter in a
completely empirical perspective; others search for patterns and functional
relationships in events; still others go out and ask the right questions at the
right time and get answers.  Some of those answers that have appeared are, to
some people, quite disturbing and fantastic.

     All in all, we are dealing with new concepts in physics, new concepts in
psychology, and the gradually growing awareness that we are not only not alone
here, but we have never been alone here.  As if that were not enough, it turns
out that factions of our society have known this, and apparently have been
interacting with some of these alien species for quite a while.

     The bottom line is that all along, humanity has been led down a false
path, a path that has been plagued by layer upon layer of conspiracies and
disinformation.  Technological knowledge and absolute power have been the
motives on the human side.  Survival has been the motive on the alien side, or
at least as far as the predominant alien visitors are concerned.

     The intent of this paper is to bring much of the details regarding this
into the open.  You are not being asked to believe it, but to consider it in
the light of what has happened, what is happening, and what may be developing
right under our very noses.  If you find that you cannot stomach such thoughts,
or that you cannot deal with it, read no further.

     It is quite evident, or it should be, that the UFO situation is both
complex and dangerous.  The UFO problem is a multi-situational and multi-
dimensional phenomenon.  We have established the following as having a basis in
fact:

          o  Craft from other worlds have crashed on Earth.
          o  Alien craft are from both ultra-dimensional sources and sources
             within this dimension.
          o  Early U.S. government efforts at acquiring alien technology were
             successful.
          o  The U.S. government has had live alien hostages at some point in
             time.
          o  The government has conducted autopsies on alien cadavers.
          o  U.S. intelligence agencies, security agencies, and public agencies
             are involved in the cover-up of facts pertaining to the situation.
          o  People have been and are currently abducted, mutilated, murdered
             and kidnapped as a result of the UFO situation.
          o  There is a current active alien presence on this planet among us
             that controls different elements of our society.
          o  Alien forces maintain bases on Earth and on the Moon.
          o  The U.S. government has had a working relationship with alien
             forces for some time, with the express purpose of gaining
             technology in gravitational propulsion, beam weaponry, and mind
             control.
          o  Millions of cattle have been killed in the process of acquiring
             biological materials.
          o  Both aliens and the U.S. government are responsible for
             mutilations, but for different reasons.
          o  We live in a multi-dimensional world that is overlapped and
             visited by entities from other dimensions.  Many of these entities
             are hostile.  Many are not hostile.
          o  The basis of our genetic development and religions lies in
             intervention by non-terrestrial and terrestrial forces.
          o  Actual technology far exceeds that perceived by the public.
          o  The United States space program is a cover operation that exists
             for public relations purposes.
          o  People are being actively killed in order to suppress the facts
             about the situation.  The CIA and the NSA are involved so deeply
             that exposure would cause collapse of their overt structure.
          o  Facts indicate alien overt presence within five to ten years.
          o  Our civilization is one of many that have existed in the last
             billion years.

     You will probably have more conclusions.  To see, just read on....


                           ANIMAL MUTILATIONS AND UFOS


General Chronology

     In the middle of 1963, a series of livestock attacks occurred in Haskell
County, Texas.  In a typical case, an Angus bull was found with its throat
slashed and a saucer-sized wound in its stomach.  The citizenry attributed the
attacks to a wild beast of some sort, a "vanishing varmint."  As it continued
its furtive forays through the Haskell County outback, the bloodluster assumed
somewhat more mythic proportions and a new name was destined to endure: The
Haskell Rascal.

     Throughout the following decade, there would be sporadic reports of
similar attacks on livestock.  These attacks were occasionally described as
"mutilations."  The most prominent of these infrequent reports was the
mutilation death of "Snippy" the horse in southern Colorado in 1967,
accompanied by area UFO sightings, a Condon Committee investigation and
worldwide press coverage.

     It was in 1973 that the modern animal mutilation wave can be said to have
begun in earnest.  That year is generally thought of as the year of the last
concerted UFO flap, although there may be reason to question that contention,
given the events of two years later.

     In 1973 and 1974 the majority of the classic mutilation reports originated
in the central United States.

     In 1975, an unprecedented onslaught spread across the western two-thirds
of the United States.  Mutilation reports peaked in that year, accompanied by
accounts of UFOs and unidentified helicopters.  In 1978, the attacks increased.

     By 1979, numerous livestock mutilations were occurring in Canada,
primarily in Alberta and Saskatchewan.  Attacks in the United States leveled
off.

     In 1980, there was an increase in activity in the United States.
Mutilations have been reported less frequently since that year, though this may
be due in part to an increased reluctance to report mutilations on the part of
ranchers and farmers.  The mutilations still continue.  Over ten thousand
animals have died in the United States; although the mutilations have been
occurring worldwide, the same circumstances are always present.


General Observations

     Any investigation which intends to probe the systematic occurrence of the
mutilation attacks upon livestock and other animals must include within its
purview certain factors which may or may not be directly related to the acts of
mutilation themselves.  These mutilations - the killing and furtive removal of
external or internal parts - have been directed at literally thousands of
animals (primarily livestock) since the 1960s.  The surgery on these animals is
primarily conducted with uncanny precision, suggesting the use of highly
sophisticated implements and techniques.  The numbing and persistent regularity
of the mutilations and the seemingly casual disposal of the useless carcasses
all hint at the extreme confidence - even arrogance - of the mutilators.  It is
an arrogance which appears to be justified by the freedom and impunity with
which these acts have been carried out.

     The pertinence of a specific element of the problem is shortly revealed in
the course of any thorough investigation into the mutilations.  I refer to the
appearance of unmarked and otherwise unidentified helicopters within a spatial
and temporal proximity of animal mutilation sites.  The occurrence of the two
has been persistent enough to supersede coincidence.

     These mystery helicopters are almost always without identifying markings,
or markings may appear to have been painted over or covered with something.
The helicopters are frequently reported flying at abnormal, unsafe or illegal
altitudes.  They may shy away if witnesses of law officers try to approach.

     There are several accounts of aggressive behavior on the part of the
helicopter occupants: with witnesses chased, "buzzed," hovered over, or even
fired upon.  At times these choppers appear very near mutilation sites, even
hovering over a pasture where a mutilated carcass is later found.  They may be
observed shortly before or after mutilations occur - or within days of a
mutilation.  The intention here is merely to stress that the "mystery
helicopter" element is a part of the issue which deserves scrutiny.

     The idea of "mystery helicopters" did not develop concurrently with the
animal mutilations themselves.  Such helicopters - unmarked, flying at low
levels, soundless (or sounding like helicopters) - have been reported for
years, and have been linked to an even more widespread phenomenon - the
"phantom" (fixed wing) aircraft.  The helicopters themselves have been seen in
areas where UFOs were reported, in many countries.  In some of the more
interesting accounts, the mystery helicopters were seen with UFOs, or shortly
after the UFOs were sighted.

     The most apt case I can think of, but certainly not the most isolated, is
a case described by Virgil Armstrong in his lecture "What NASA Didn't Tell Us
About the Moon."  He discusses helicopters and UFOs in general.

     Armstrong describes a friend of his that had invented a special camera
arrangement with the idea that it would increase the chances of getting good
pictures of UFOs.  The camera was mounted on a gunstock along with a laser.
The idea was to fire the laser at the UFO, if one appeared, and hopefully the
UFO would come to a halt, enabling him to take some quality pictures.

     Not too long after they were set up in the desert, a UFO did in fact
appear, and they fired the laser and the disk stopped in a hovering mode.  They
took quite a few good pictures of it.  Shortly thereafter, the disk flew away.
Within minutes, they heard the unmistakable sound of helicopters coming their
way.  The helicopters landed strategically around their group, and out of the
choppers came a croup of Black Berets, which are Air Force security forces.
The commander of the Berets walked up to the group and said, "What are you
doing here?"

     "Obviously, we are photographing flying objects, and we just saw a flying
saucer and we got some very very good pictures of it."  The commander then
asked the leader of the group if he knew where he was.  The group leader
replied, "No."

     The commander then said, "We suggest you get out of here right now!"

     The group leader then asked, "What right do you have to tell us to get out
of here?  Is this government land?"

     The commander of the Black Berets replied, "Indeed it is.  It is Andrews
Air Force Base, and if you are not out of here in ten minutes, you are under
arrest."  With that, the Berets removed the film from the camera, and the group
left.

     Not only does this illustrate one kind of instance where UFOs are seen in
relationship to helicopters, but it also illustrates the fact that either some
of the disks are ours, or we have a military/government relationship with those
who fly them.  The helicopters mentioned above are not the mystery ones, but
were United States military ones.

     Another case of military helicopters and United States-owned disks comes
from the book "UFO Crash at Aztec," by Wendell Stevens.  In the book he relates
the incident where an Indian was backpacking in the mountains in the vicinity
of Area 51, Groom Lake, on the Nellis AFB range north of Las Vegas.  He heard
approaching helicopters and hid out of sight.  The helicopters were broad-
casting a warning over public address systems for anyone in the area to show
themselves because they were going to conduct a "dangerous military test."  The
Indian maintained his hidden posture, and the helicopters flew overhead and
back down toward the Groom Lake facility.  Minutes later, two helicopters were
seen flying up the canyon with a black disk flying between them and slightly
above them.  They flew overhead and then the helicopters turned around and flew
back towards the base, followed shortly afterward by the disk.  The
individual's name and how to contact him for further details is given in the
book.


The Mystery Choppers

     Situations involving the mystery helicopters appear to be a little more
insidious.  A good example is an event which occurred in Madison County,
Montana, between June and October of 1976.  Twenty-two confirmed cattle
mutilations had occurred during that period, and they were accompanied by
reports throughout the county of silent, unmarked, jet-black helicopters,
flashing or steady anomalous lights in the air and near the ground, unmarked
fixed-wing aircraft, and white vans in remote and previously inaccessible
areas.

     Toward the latter part of this period, in early autumn of 1976, a hunter
from Bozeman, Montana, was out alone around 3:00pm one day in the Red Mountain
area near Norris.  He watched as a black helicopter without markings flew
overhead and disappeared below a small hill.  The curious hunter climbed to the
top of the hill.  There was the black chopper (a Bell Jet Ranger, he thought)
on the ground, the engine still running.  Seven men had apparently exited from
the craft and were walking up the hill toward the observer.  As the hunter
advanced toward the seven, he waved and shouted congenial greetings.  It was
then that he realized there was something about the men - they were all
Oriental.  They had slanted eyes and olive skin and were jabbering among
themselves in some indecipherable language.  They wore "everyday" clothes, not
uniforms.  Suddenly they began to return to the helicopter.  The hunter, still
waving and shouting friendly greetings, started after them.  The Orientals
quickened their pace.  When the hunter approached within five or six feet, they
broke into a dead run, crowded into the chopper and took off.

     In a documented "mystery helicopter" wave in England, accounts place
Oriental-appearing occupants in an unidentified chopper.  Slant-eyed, olive
skinned, Oriental-seeming occupants have been a staple at the heart and at the
periphery of UFO accounts for years.  Significant numbers of the infamous
"men-in-black" (MIB) have a similar appearance, but very often they are seen as
very pale and gaunt men who are sensitive to light.

     In STIGMATA No. 5 (Fall-Winter 1978), Tom Adams outlined the most
prominent speculative explanations accounting for the mutilation/helicopter
link, including the following:

          o  The helicopters are themselves UFOs, disguised to appear as
             terrestrial craft.
          o  The choppers originate from within the U.S. government/military
             and are directly involved in conducting the actual mutilations.
          o  The helicopters are government/military and are not involved in
             the mutilations but are investigating them.
          o  The helicopters are government/military, and they know about the
             identity and motives of the mutilators and by their presence, they
             are trying to divert attention to the possibility of involvement
             by the military.

     The answer, as far as Tom Adams is concerned, could be a combination of
the above explanations.  There also has been speculation that they are involved
in biological experiments with chemical or biological warfare or the
geobotanical pursuit of petroleum and mineral deposits.  On one occasion, an
Army standard-type scalpel was found at a mutilation site.  Since the disks
have been mostly involved with the mutilations, it is thought that this was a
diversionary event.

     These events, or the discussion of them, is just the precursor to the
actual revelations of what is behind the mutilations: alien acquisition of
biological materials for their own use.  To discuss this in a logical and
sequential manner, we must review what has been really happening right under
our noses: direct interaction with extraterrestrial biological entities
(EBE's).  To discuss that, however, we must attempt to start at the beginning
with what we now know to be true.


                                 THE SAGA BEGINS


     It seemingly all began thousands of years ago, but for the purposes of
this discussion, let's start with some events that we all are familiar with.
In 1947, two years after we set off the first nuclear explosion that our
current civilization detonated, came the Mantell episode, where we had the
first recorded incident of a military confrontation with extraterrestrials that
resulted in the death of a military pilot.  It is quite evident now that our
government did not known quite how to handle the situation.  In 1952, the
nation's capital was overflown by a series of disks.  It was this event which
led to the involvement of United States security forces (CIA, NSA, DIA, FBI) to
try to keep the situation under control until they could understand what was
happening.  During this period, the government established a working group,
known as Majestic Twelve (MJ-12).  The original members were: Admiral Roscoe H.
Hillenkoetter, Dr. Vannevar Bush, Secretary James Forrestal, General Nathan P.
Twining, General Hoyt S. Vandenburg, Dr. Detlev Bronk, Dr. Jerome Hunsaker, Mr.
Sidney W. Souers, Mr. Gordon Gray, Dr. Donald Menzel, General Robert M.
Montague, and Dr. Lloyd V. Berkner.

     The MJ-12 group has been a continuously-existing group since it was
created, with new members replacing others that die.  For example, when
Secretary Forrestal was upset at seeing the United States sold out in World War
II, he wound up being sent to a Naval hospital for emotional strain.  Before
relatives could get to him, he "jumped out a 16th story window."  Most persons
close to him consider his suicide contrived.  When Forrestal died, he was
replaced by General Walter B. Smith.

     In December of 1947, Project Sign was created to acquire as much
information as possible about UFOs, their performance characteristics, and
their purposes.  In order to preserve security, liaisons between Project Sign
and MJ-12 were limited to two individuals within the intelligence division of
the Air Materiel Command whose role it was to pass along certain types of
information through channels.  Project Sign evolved into Project Grudge in
December, 1948.  Project Grudge had an overt civilian counterpart named Project
Bluebook, with which we are all familiar.  Only "safe" reports were passed to
Bluebook.  In 1949, MJ-12 evolved an initial plan of contingency called
MJ-1949-04P/78 that was to make allowance for public disclosure of some data
should the necessity present itself.

     Majestic Twelve was originally organized by General George C. Marshall in
July, 1947, to study the Roswell-Magdalena UFO crash recovery and debris.
Admiral Hillenkoetter, director of the CIA from May 1, 1947, until September,
1950, decided to activate the "Robertson Panel," which was designed to monitor
civilian UFO study groups that were appearing all over the country.  He also
joined NICAP in 1956 and was chosen as a member of its board of directors.  It
was from this position that he was able to act as the MJ-12 "mole," along with
his team of other covert experts.  They were able to steer NICAP in any
direction they wanted to go.  With the "Flying Saucer Program" under complete
control of MJ-12 and with the physical evidence hidden away, General Marshall
felt more at ease with this very bizarre situation.  These men and their
successors have most successfully kept most of the public fooled for 39 years,
including much of the western world, by setting up false experts and throwing
their influence behind them to make their plan work, with considerable success.
Until now.

     Within six months of the Roswell crash on 2 July 1947 and the finding of
another crashed UFO at San Augustine Flats near Magdalena, New Mexico, on 3
July 1947, a great deal of reorganization of agencies and shuffling of people
took place.  The main thrust behind the original "security lid," and the very
reason for its construction, was the analysis and attempted duplication of the
technologies of the disks.  That activity is headed up by the following groups:

          o  The Research and Development Board (R&DB)
          o  Air Force Research and Development (AFRD)
          o  The Office of Naval Research (ONR)
          o  CIA Office of Scientific Intelligence (CIA-OSI)
          o  NSA Office Of Scientific Intelligence (NSA-OSI)

     No single one of these groups was supposed to know the whole story.  Each
group was to know only the parts that MJ-12 allowed them to know.  MJ-12 also
operates through the various civilian intelligence and investigative groups.
The CIA and the FBI are manipulated by MJ-12 to carry out their purposes.  The
NSA was created in the first place to protect the secret of the recovered
flying disks, and eventually got complete control over all communications
intelligence.

     This control allows the NSA to monitor any individual through mail,
telephone, telexes, telegrams, and now through on-line computers, monitoring
private and personal communications as they choose.  In fact, the present-day
NSA is the current main extension of MJ-12 pertaining to the "Flying Saucer
Program."  Vast amounts of disinformation are spread throughout the UFO
research field.  Any witnesses to any aspect of the program have their lives
monitored in every detail, for each has signed a security oath.  For people who
have worked in the program, including military members, breaking that oath
could have any on of the following direct consequences:

          o  A verbal warning accompanied by a review of the security oath.
          o  A stronger warning, sometimes accompanied by a brow-beating and
             intimidation.
          o  Psychologically working on an individual to bring on depression
             that will lead to suicide.
          o  Murder of the person made to appear as a suicide or accident.
          o  Strange and sudden accidents, always fatal.
          o  Confinement in special "detention centers."
          o  Confinement in "insane asylums" where they are "treated" by mind-
             control and deprogramming techniques.  Individuals are released
             with changed personalities, identities, and altered memories.
          o  Bringing the individual into the "inside," where he is employed
             and works for "them," and where he can be watched.  This is
             usually in closed facilities with little contact with the outside
             world.  Underground facilities are the usual place for this.

     Any individual who they perceive to be "too close to the truth" will be
treated in the same manner.  MJ-12 will go to any length to preserve and
protect the ultimate secret.  As we will see later, the characteristics of what
this ultimate secret would turn out to be would change drastically, for it was
something even MJ-12 could not predict - actual contact with alien groups.

     How the actual contact between the government and aliens was initially
made is not known, but the government was made aware that it could be done by a
civilian using the right equipment.  Dr. Paul Bennewitz, civilian scientist,
did so using computer equipment and informed the government he had done so, not
realizing that by then, in 1983, that the government was in truth as deep into
dealing with the aliens as his communications with them revealed.  Dr.
Bennewitz lives next to Manzano Weapons Storage Area in Albuquerque, New
Mexico.  He observed UFOs constantly over the area and initially decided that
they were a threat to the installation.  He proceeded to figure out a coding
system and attempted and was successful in communicating with the aliens that
were flying over that area.

     What he found out is that after initial contacts with the aliens years
ago, we agreed to provide them with bases underground in the United States in
return for certain technological secrets which the aliens would reveal to us.
The aliens would also be allowed to carry out certain operations, abductions,
and mutilations without intervention.

     The original contact between the government and the extraterrestrial
biological entities, who are grey in color and about 3.5 to 4.5 feet high
(hereafter referred to as the Greys), was achieved between 1947 and 1951.  We
knew that the Greys were instrumental in performing the mutilations of animals
(and some humans) and that they were using the glandular substances derived
from these materials for food (absorbed through the skin) and to clone more
Greys in their underground laboratories.  The government was also aware that
the Greys performed some of the abductions to secure genetic materials.  The
government insisted that the Greys provide them with a list that would be
presented to the National Security Council.

     Through all this, the government thought that the Greys were basically
tolerable creatures, although a bit distasteful.  They presumed at the time
that it was not unreasonable to assume that the public would and could get used
to their presence.  Between 1968 and 1969 a plan was formulated to make the
public aware of their existence over the succeeding twenty years.  This time
period would culminate with a series of documentaries that would explain the
history and intentions of the Greys.

     The Greys assured us that the real purpose of the abductions was for
monitoring of our civilization, and when we learned that the abductions were a
lot more frequent and insidious than we were led to believe, the government
became concerned.  Their concern was also based on additional information
regarding the purposes for the abductions:

          o  Insertion of a 3mm spherical biological monitoring device through 
             the nasal cavity into the brain of the abductee.
          o  Implementing subliminal post-hypnotic suggestions that would
             compel the abductee to perform some specific act at a time to be
             within the next two to five years.
          o  Genetic crossbreeding between the Greys and human beings.
          o  Insertion of discoid monitoring devices into the muscle tissue of
             the abductees.  Presence of these has been verified by x-ray.

     By the time we had found out the truth about the intentions of the Greys
(they intend to stay here and stay in control of our world) it was too late.
We had already "sold out" humanity.  Not that it would have made any
difference, because they were here doing what they were doing anyway.

     In 1983, a story was outlined by government sources that said that the
Greys are responsible for our biological evolution through manipulation of the
DNA of already evolving primates on this planet.  Various time intervals of the
DNA manipulation were specified for 25,000, 15,000, 5,000, and 2,500 years ago.
Originally, the government thought that the Greys meant us no harm, but today,
in 1988, the picture that is emerging is exactly the opposite.  The story now
is one of great deception at several different levels: the Greys Trojan
Horse-style manipulation and lying which allied MJ-12 forces with them four
decades ago; the government's disinformation of the subject of UFOs in order to
perpetuate the agreement with the Greys free of public scrutiny; the lies to
the abductees; the Greys on-going abduction of people and mutilation of animals
in order to harvest enzymes, blood and other tissues for their own survival
needs; and a genetic blend of the Grey race and a tall Nordic race to enable
Grey interfacing with humans to be done with greater ease.

     Information from a source at a southwest Army base reveals that these
multiple levels of deception are true.  This same source sees the world
dominated and controlled by the Greys in a way similar to that portrayed in the
"V" television series - they are concerned only for their own survival agenda,
and this agenda requires biological substances from other life forms on our
planet.

     The apparent reasoning for the Grey preoccupation with this is due to
their lack of a formal digestive tract and the fact that they absorb nutrients
and excrete waste directly through the skin.  The substances that they acquire
are mixed with hydrogen peroxide and "painted" on their skin, allowing
absorption of the required nutrients.  It is construed from this that some
weaponry against them might be geared in this direction.


Observations by a Visiting Nordic

     In October, 1987, UFO researcher George Andrews was successfully able to
contact one of the Nordics not associated with the Greys, through a woman in
California.  What follows are the comments made by the alien:

     "Were you a culture about to invade, you would not do it with a flourish
of ships showing up in the heavens and undergo risk of being fired upon.
That's the type of warfare slightly less evolved beings get into.  You would
create intense confusion and disagreement with only inferences to your presence
- inferences which would [in turn] cause controversial disagreement."

     "The Greys are insidious little fiends.  They did exactly [to us] what
they're doing here [to you].  You are not on the verge of an invasion.  You are
not in the middle of an invasion.  The invasion has already taken place.  It's
merely in its final stages."

     "What would you invade?  [Here he describes the operational plan of the
Greys from the beginning.]  You would go to the most secret of communities
within a society.  In the case of the United States, you would go and
infiltrate the CIA.  You would take over some of them and you would take over
part of the KGB."

     "You would create great dissension and disagreement between factions of
the public at large - some groups saying they have seen UFOs, others saying
'No, no, this is not possible.'  You would involve two major countries in an
on-going idiotic philosophical disagreement so that while the Soviet Union and
the United States constantly battle back and forth about who has which piece of
territory or whether one invades Iran or whether one invades Afghanistan or
whatever... whether one dismantles one nuclear warhead or the other dismantles
another group of warheads - you would sit back and laugh if you had the
capacity to laugh."

     "You would present yourself indeed to some in a group who would protect
you [CIA or MJ-12] thinking they had a secret more secret and more perfect
knowledge of something than anyone else on this planet had, and they would
covet you and you would trust their own greed and you would trust their own
mass stupidity to trap them.  And you'd do it on both sides."

     "You'd show yourself to some of the mass populace to further involve
[factions of] the government in an attempt to shut them up, to keep them even
more busy quieting them and trying to 'stop more information about UFOs from
getting out.'  You'd have the mass populace to a state where they distrusted
the government.  'Oh, why don't they believe us?  Why can't they understand
that these things are really happening?  We're not crazy!'"

     "So you would have battles constantly about whether UFOs exist or they
don't exist.  You would have the public and the government at each other's
throats.  You would set two major superpowers at each other's throats.  And you
would have set up groups like 'haves' - the wealthy but contented - and the
'have-nots.'  You would plant the seeds of massive discontent."

     "Eventually you might have some show of ships landing in the 1990s.  One
or two.  By the time they have landed, be assured they will be in complete
control.  You will start doing crossbreeds and more crossbreeds, generation
after generation."

     "You bribe the government with a few tidbits - a Star Wars system.  You
tease and tempt the Soviet Union with a laser system far finer than any of
their own scientists could think of.  And you always have that subtle inference
- just on the borderline of consciousness so that UFOs don't seem too
believable, yet you keep it couched in secrecy and make it seem quite so insane
that no one would believe them.  On top of it, you would unleash forces that
would want to kill them [UFO contactees] if they disclosed that the CIA is
dealing with the exact same things the [contact victim] is."

     "Maybe one or two hundred years from now, some of the Greys will even
physically mingle and you may have some creatures walking around who are pretty
much hybrids between Greys and your own race.  For now, anything that walks
around will look much like yourselves.  It's simpler.  It holds down on mass
panic."

     "Everyone who has experiences with them [Greys] will be at odds with the
government.  To add to that, we will go into a complete phase of earthquake
after earthquake and upheaval after upheaval."

     "The inner core of the CIA is deeply controlled by the Greys.  The CIA
sees interaction with the Greys as a path to greater scientific achievement."

     "One reason you are seeing so many different kinds of UFOs is that other
cultures are watching with extreme interest.  Scientists from other cultures
arrive to watch.  The Greys have not only taken over the intelligence agencies,
they have also taken over what those agencies call 'lunatic fringe groups.'"

     Well, that's what the Nordic had to say.  The source of this also makes
the following commentary:

     "The ultimate evil is that masked form of psychological complacency that
leads one to adhere to a group philosophy rather than eke out one's own
horizons.  As soon as you acquire an awareness of being a so-called 'chosen
special group,' you are on the way to a fall.  That is the seed of destruction
in any society and any culture and it leaves it vulnerable.  It will be the
eventual undoing of the Greys as well.  They see not their error - it is the
very weakness they seize upon that is their own inherent weakness.  To try and
change a Grey, or a cultish type of 'Star Person,' or a CIA member is futile.
It will happen, but all in its own good time... it is the spirit that makes
anyone stand up and disagree with something that is untrue and incorrect that
will be the thorn in the side of the Greys, and the other forces that have
allied with them."

     During the occupation of the Greys, they have established quite a number
of underground bases all over the world, especially in the United States.  One
such base (among others in the same state) is under Archuleta Mesa, which is
about 2.5 miles northwest of Dulce, New Mexico.  Details about that base have
come across by way of two sources.  The first source is by way of an abduction
of a woman and her son who witnessed the pickup of a calf for extraction of
biological materials.

     "In May, 1980, a most interesting case occurred in northern New Mexico.  A
mother and her son were driving on a rural highway near Cimarron when they
observed two craft in the process of abducting a calf.  Both of them were then
abducted and taken on separate craft to the underground installation, where the
woman witnessed the mutilation of the calf.  It was alleged that she also
observed vats containing cattle body parts floating in a liquid, and another
vat containing the body of a male human.  The woman was subjected to an exam
and it was further alleged that small metallic objects were implanted into her
body as well as into her son's body.  More than one source has informed us that
CAT scans have confirmed the presence of these implants."

     The above extract is from a transcript of a conversation between Jim
McCampbell and Dr. Paul Bennewitz on July 13, 1984.  Bennewitz reports that
through regressive hypnosis of the mother and child (required only in about 30%
of abduction cases) and his own follow-up investigation (including
communications received via his computer terminal, which are ostensibly from a
UFO-related source), he was able to determine the location of the underground
facility: a kilometer underground beneath Archuleta Mesa on the Jicarilla
Apache Indian Reservation near Dulce, New Mexico (since 1976, one of the areas
of the U.S. hardest hit by mutilations).  Bennewitz's information is that this
installation is operated jointly as part of an on-going program of cooperation
between the U.S. government and EBEs.

     There are also underground bases at Kirtland AFB and Holloman AFB, as well
as at scores of other bases around the world, including Bentwaters, England.

     Back to the base under discussion... after Bennewitz briefed Air Force
officials on what he had found, a trip to the area revealed the following data:

     The base is 2.5 miles northwest of Dulce, and almost overlooks the town.
There is a level highway 36 feet wide going into the area.  It is a government
road.  One can see telemetry trailers and buildings that are five-sided with a
dome.  Next to the domes, a black limousine was noted - a CIA vehicle.  These
limos will run you off the road if you try to get into the area.  To the north
there is a launch site.  There are two wrecked ships there; they are 36 feet
long with wings, and one can see oxygen and hydrogen tanks.  The ships that we
got out of the trade are atomic-powered with plutonium pellets.  Refueling of
the plutonium is accomplished at Los Alamos.  The base has been there since
1948.

     Some of the disks are piloted by the NSA.  The base is 4,000 feet long and
helicopters are going in and out of there all the time.  When it became known
that Bennewitz was familiar with this, the mutilations in the area stopped.  In
1979, something happened and the base was temporarily closed.  There was an
argument over weapons and our people were chased out.  The aliens killed 66 of
our people, and 44 got away.

     One of the people who in fact got away was a CIA agent who, before
leaving, made some notes, photos, and videotapes and went into hiding.  He has
been in hiding ever since, and every six months he contacts each of five people
he left copies of the material with.  His instructions were that if he missed
four successive contacts, the people could do whatever they want with the
material.

     This agent calls an individual known to MUFON.  Somehow, a description of
the "Dulce Papers" was issued, and was received in December, 1987 by many
researchers.  The "Dulce Papers" were composed of 25 black and white photos, a
videotape with no dialogue and a set of papers that included technical
information regarding the jointly occupied (U.S.-Alien) facility one kilometer
beneath the Archuleta Mesa near Dulce, New Mexico.  The facility still exists
and is currently operational.  It is believed that there are four additional
facilities of the same type, one being located a few miles to the southeast of
Groom Lake, Nevada.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     "A general description of these papers is they contain documents that
discuss copper and molybdenum, and papers that discuss magnesium and potassium,
but mostly papers about copper.  Sheets of paper with charts and strange
diagrams.  Papers that discuss UV light and gamma rays.  These papers tell what
the aliens are after and how the blood (taken from cattle) is used.  The aliens
seem to absorb atoms to eat.  They put their hands in blood, sort of like a
sponge, for nourishment.  It's not just food they want; the DNA in cattle and
humans is being altered.  The 'Type One' creature is a lab animal.  They know
how to change the atoms to create a temporary 'almost human being.'  It is made
with animal tissue and depends on a computer to simulate memory, a memory the
computer has withdrawn from another human.  Clones.  The 'almost human being'
is slow and clumsy.  Real humans are used for training, to experiment with and
to breed with these 'almost humans.'  Some humans are kidnapped and used
completely.  Some are kept in large tubes, and are kept alive in an amber
liquid."

     "Some humans are brainwashed and used to distort the truth.  Certain male
humans have a high sperm count and are kept alive.  Their sperm is used to
alter the DNA and create a non-gender being called 'Type Two.'  That sperm is
grown in some way and altered again, put in wombs.  They resemble 'ugly humans'
when growing but look normal when fully grown, which only takes a few months
from fetus-size."

     "They have a short life span, less than a year.  Some female humans are
used for breeding.  Countless women have had a sudden miscarriage after about
three months' pregnancy.  Some never know they were pregnant, others remember
contact some way.  The fetus is used to mix the DNA in types one and two.  The
atomic makeup in that fetus is half human, half 'almost human,' and would not 
survive in the mother's womb.  It is taken at three months and grown
elsewhere."
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     Well, that's what the "Dulce Papers" review says.  There are some pen and
ink reproductions of some of the photos made in the laboratories (3), an
illustration of what one of the wombs looks like (2' x 4'), an illustration
showing one of the tubes where one of the "almost humans" is grown, a page
showing a simple diagram of crystalline metal, pure gold crystal, and what
looks like either a genetic or metallurgical diagram or chart.  Also attached
is what looks like an x-ray diffraction pattern and a diagram of hexagonal
crystals, with a comment that they are best for electrical conduction.

     It would appear that the last half of material in the "review" applies to
the supercrystalline metal used for hull structure, or something along that
line.

     Obviously, this is all rather bizarre from a certain point of view - any
point of view, in fact.  Nevertheless, material that is supported by years of
descriptions and multitudes of corroborations must mean something, especially
when bumped against what is seen to be going on.

     It is apparent from this and other data that has been accumulated over the
years, that there are underground bases and tunnel complexes all over the
world, and that more are being constructed all the time.  Many of you may
recall the "Shaver" mysteries and inner-earth city stories.  Well, all that is
true.  There are cities down there, amongst other things, and some of them have
nothing to do with the main subject of this paper.  They've been there for a
long time.

     Let's change direction for a moment.  One individual by the name of Lew
Tery has been working on some ideas regarding UFOs and geomagnetic anomalies. 
I will go into what he has discovered (although the concept of the relationship
is not new) and let you judge that for yourself.

     After purchasing aeromagnetic and gravitational anomaly maps from the
United States Geological Survey, it becomes evident that there was indeed a
valid connection between these areas and UFOs.  Mr. Tery gave a lecture in
Arizona about that relationship, and was subsequently harassed by the FBI, and
told that the information is "sensitive."  Mr. Tery took the hint and declined
to talk publicly about it to the degree that he had been doing.

     Both the aeromagnetic and gravitational (Bougier Gravity) maps indicate
basic field strength, as well as areas of high and low field strength.
Interestingly enough, the areas of maximum and minimum field strength have the
following:

          o  All have frequent UFO sightings.
          o  All are either on Indian Reservations, government and, or the
             government is trying to buy up the land.
          o  Many of them, especially where several are clustered together, are
             suspected base areas and/or areas where mutilations and abductions
             have historically taken place.

     In these observations, Mr. Tery has gone far, but he has gone a little
farther in noting that there are times when the UFOs are seen in these areas.
Through painstaking research, Mr. Tery found that the sightings, as well as
many abductions and mutilations, occur:

          o  On the new moon or within two days before the new moon.
          o  On the full moon or within two days before the full moon.
          o  At the perihelion (moon closest to earth) or within two days
             before the perihelion.

     A glance at the nearest farmers' almanac will give you the information you
require as far as the days for this year or any other one.  There seems to be
no concrete explanation for the coincidence of the times and the events, but it
is true.


                                THE MEN IN BLACK


     All things considered, UFO research has become pretty much of a circus
today, and the most intriguing and controversial sideshow skirting the edges is
the question of the "silencers," or the mysterious "Men in Black."  There is a
strong subliminal appeal in these accounts of visits by mysterious dark-suited
figures (I have been visited myself, as have others I've known) attempting to
silence UFO witnesses.  A typical situation would be that a witness has a UFO
sighting or UFO-related experience.  Shortly thereafter he is visited by one or
more "odd"-looking men who relate to him the minutest details of his
experience, even though he has as yet told no one for fear of ridicule or other
reasons.

     The men warn him about spreading the story of his experience around and
sometimes even threaten him personally, sometimes obliquely, sometimes
directly.  Any evidence, if it exists, is confiscated in one way or another.
Sometimes the visit is for some totally meaningless reason and the subject of
UFOs is hardly mentioned, if at all.  But again, the men all seem to look
alike.

     We actually seem to find ourselves in close proximity to beings who
obviously must be directly connected in some way with the objects themselves or
the source behind them, yet they seem to be functioning unobtrusively within
the framework of our own everyday existence.

     The classic conception of an MIB is a man of indefinite age, medium height
and dressed completely in black.  He always has a black hat and often a black
turtleneck sweater.  They present an appearance often described as "strange" or
"odd."  They speak in a dull monotone voice, "like a computer," and are
dark-complected with high cheekbones, thin lips, pointed chin, and eyes that
are mildly slanted.

     The visitors themselves are often on absurd missions.  They have
reportedly posed as salesmen, telephone repairmen or representatives from
official or unofficial organizations.  Their mode of transportation is usually
large and expensive cars - Buicks or Lincolns, sometimes Cadillacs, all black,
of course.

     I might note at this point that their physical appearance also has
included beings that have pale-greyish skin, and that some of them have been
seen to have blond hair, yet they wear the clothing and drive the cars
previously described.

     Their cars often operate with the headlights off, but ghostly purple or
greenish glows illuminate the interior.  Unusual insignia have been seen
emblazoned on the doors and the license plates are always unidentifiable or
untraceable.

     The fabric of their clothes has been described as strangely "shiny" or
thin, but not silky - almost as if they have been cut from a new type of
fabric.

     Their often-mechanical behavior has caused them to be described by some as
being like robots or androids (think back to the Dulce lab).

     A lot of descriptions of some of these "folks" are pretty bizarre.  A
businessman's family in Wildwood, New Jersey, was visited by an unusually large
man whose pants legs hiked up when he sat down, revealing a green wire grafted
onto his skin and running up his leg.

     There are other cases of MIB appearing on the other side of a wet, muddy
field after a heavy rain, but having no mud whatever on their brightly shined
shoes and in the bitter cold, out of nowhere, wearing only a thin coat.  Their
shoes and wallets all seem new and hardly broken in.

     They are not alone.  They seem to have faceless conspirators in the
nation's post offices and phone companies.  Researchers and witnesses often
report their mail going astray at an unusually high rate and being bothered by
bizarre phone calls where they are spoken to by metallic, inhuman-sounding
voices.

     Unusual noises on the phone, intensifying whenever UFOs are mentioned, and
voices breaking in on conversations, have all led many people to suspect that
their phones are being tapped.

     One can't discuss the MIB for long without mentioning the name of John A.
Keel, an author who has written much about them.  Keel has done more than any
other writer to publicize this bizarre aspect of the UFO situation.  Keel
suggests that the UFOs are part of the environment itself and come from another
time-space continua; that most of the UFO phenomena is psychic and
psychological rather than physical.  Well, I personally would not define it
that way, although those two components are certainly deeply involved in what's
going on.

     The first noted appearance of the MIB was in 1947, at the scene of the
Maury Island incident, where some debris was ejected from a disk, and
subsequently recovered by officials, who loaded them on an Army bomber which
crashed on takeoff.

     To illustrate a little how bizarre some of the incidents are regarding the
MIB, I have assembled a short list of some of the more interesting factors in
some cases:

          o  An ex-Air Force man is gassed and interrogated by MIB after he has
             learned classified NASA secrets.
          o  Closeup photos of UFOs were seized from a teenager who is also
             directly threatened by MIB.
          o  MIB sighted in the lobby of the U.S. State Department leave a
             mysterious artifact.
          o  MIB pose as Air Force officers to silence witnesses.
          o  MIB tries to buy before-hours Coke and sings to birds in trees.
          o  MIB disintegrates a coin in a witness' hand and tells him that his
             heart will do the same if he talks.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     Throughout all this information, I have neglected to mention some aspects
of the psychology of the Greys.  Dr. Paul Bennewitz, in his original report to
the government entitled "Project Beta," goes into some detail, which I will now
discuss:

          o  The alien, either through evolvement or because the humanoid types
             are "made," will exhibit tendencies for bad logic.  They appear to
             have more frailties and weaknesses than the normal Homo Sapien.
          o  They are not to be trusted.
          o  Because of the aliens' apparent logic system, a key decision
             cannot be made without higher clearance.  All are under control of
             what they call "The Keeper," yet it would appear that even this is
             not the final authority.  Delays as long as 12-15 hours can occur 
             for a decision.
          o  Because of this apparent control, individual instantaneous
             decision-making by the alien is limited.  If the "plan" goes even
             slightly out of balance or context, they become confused.  Faced
             with this, possibly, the humanoids would be the first to run.
          o  Psychologically their morale is near disintegration.  There is
             pronounced dissension in the ranks - even with the humanoids.
          o  Because of their own internal vulnerability mind-wise to each
             other, there is a basic lack of trust between them.
          o  They appear to be totally death-oriented, and because of this,
             absolutely death-fear oriented.  This is a psychological
             advantage.
          o  The prime, and weakest area discovered, probed and tested is
             exactly what they have used, thinking it their key strength - that
             being the manipulation of and control of the mind.  Manipulated in
             reverse-psychology they face a situation where they have a
             vulnerable, integrated weakness.
          o  They totally respect force.


Grey Physiology and Anatomy

     The approximate height of most specimens is between 3.5 and 4.5 feet.  The
head, by human standards, is large in comparison with the body.  Facial
features show a pair of eyes described as large, sunken or deeply set, far
apart or distended more than the human, and slightly slanted as Oriental or
Mongoloid.  No ear lobes or apertures on the side of the head were seen.  The
nose is vague.  One or two holes have been mentioned.  The mouth area is
described as a small slit or fissure.  In some cases there is no mouth at all.
It appears not to function as a means for communication or for food.  The neck
area is described as being thin, in some instances not being visible at all
because of the tightly-knit garment.  Most observers describe these humanoids
as being hairless.  Some of the bodies recovered have a slight hair-patch atop
the head.  Others have what appears to be like a silver skullcap.  There were
no breathing attachments or communications devices.  This suggests telepathy
with higher intelligence.  In one instance there was an opening in the right
frontal lobe area, revealing a crystalline network.  This network implies the
development of a third brain.

     The arms are described as long and thin, reaching down to the knee
section.  The hands each contain four fingers, with no thumbs.  Three fingers
are longer than the others.  Some are very long.  Others are very short.  No
description is available of the legs and feet.  Some pathologists indicate that
section of the body was not developed as we would anticipate, showing that some
of these beings were adapted to life in the water.  There was a webbing effect
between the fingers on most of the specimens.

     According to most observers, the skin is grey.  Some claim it is beige,
tan or pinkish-grey.  No reproductive organs or capabilities were discovered.
No phallus.  No womb.  Confirms cloning mentioned by other sources.  The
humanoids appear to be from a mold, sharing identical racial and biological
characteristics.  There is no blood as we know it, but there is a fluid which
is greyish in color.

     The "Taxonomy of Extra-Terrestrial Humanoids," another offering by George
Andrews, yields some other observations:

          o  Working under the instructions of the humanoids from Rigel (the
             Greys), CIA and former Nazi scientists have developed and deployed
             malignant strains of bacteria and viruses, including AIDS, in
             order to exterminate undesirable elements of the human population.
          o  The Greys are almost entirely devoid of emotions, but can obtain a
             "high" by telepathically tuning in the different kinds of intense
             human emotion, such as ecstasy or agony.  (Does that explain why
             UFOs have always been seen in regions of war and human conflict?)
          o  There are over 1000 humans in the United States alone who are the
             offspring of intergalactic or extragalactic beings and terrestrial
             humans.  (The son of an acquaintance of [deleted in original] is
             one.)
          o  Throughout recorded history, as well as during prehistoric times,
             there has been constant genetic manipulation of and interbreeding
             with humans in order to breed out the less evolved simian traits.
             The Nordic races have participated in this from the beginning, and
             we are as much a part of them as we might suppose.
          o  Greys have the ability to camouflage themselves as tall Blonds
             through mental energy projection.  Blonds never project themselves
             as Greys.  Some Blonds seen with the Greys are physically real,
             but are prisoners of the Greys who have either paralyzed them or
             have destroyed their ability to teleport through time and other
             dimensions.  Note: a lot of the material obtained by George
             Andrews has as its source a claimed Blond that is a time traveler
             that escaped the Grey takeover of their system.
          o  Both Blonds and Greys have the ability to disintegrate matter into
             energy and then reintegrate the energy back into matter.  This
             ability allows them to pass through walls and to transport
             abductees out of their cars with the doors still locked.
          o  The original Rigelians were the Blonds until they were invaded by
             the Greys, a parasitic race, who took over and interbred with
             them.  The original Rigelians were the ones who seeded the earth.
             It is because of this common ancestry that terrestrial humanity is
             of such interest to both the Blonds and the Greys.
          o  Terrestrial human females can be impregnated either on board ship
             or while they sleep in their homes.  Males need not be manifested
             in visible form for this to occur.
          o  The Blonds now habitate the Procyon system.  The conflict between
             the Blonds and the Greys is in a state of temporary truce,
             although the conflict between the Rigelian and the Sirius system
             is being fought actively.
          o  The Blonds with speech abilities will respond violently if
             attacked or threatened, but the telepathic ones will respond
             peacefully.
          o  Blonds were sometimes mistaken for angels in earlier centuries.
             They do not seem to age, and consistently appear to be from 27 to
             35 human years old.

     Confused?  Well, now you can see why the natural diversity of the way
things are hard to sort out for the average researcher.  The probability that
this information is true or partially true remains fairly high, based on
analysis of what we know about abductions and general contact between humans
and EBEs that has been documented.


Real Esoterica - Sirius and the MIB

     Let's regress for a moment back to the MIB.  According to John Keel, the
MIB often state that they are representatives of the "Nation of the Third Eye."

     Based on some of the info we have already researched, it is apparent that
Sirius has been in contact with us for a long time.  According to George Hunt
Williamson (one of the early contactees) in his book _Other Tongues, Other
Flesh,_ the Earth allies of Sirius, i.e., the secret societies, use the Eye of
Horus as an insignia.  This symbol has also been seen on the MIB.  Secret
societies believe that there is a Great White Lodge on Earth.  They call it
Shamballa - and consider it to be the spiritual center of the world.  Now,
theosophists such as Alice Bailey say that the Great White Lodge is on Sirius.
If the All-Seeing-Eye is a symbol of Sirius' earth-allies and the MIB wear that
symbol, and if Shamballa represents the Great White Lodge on Earth - then the
MIB are emissaries of Shamballa.  Sirius and Shamballa are two sides of the
same coin.  This is verified in the book _The Undiscovered Country_ by Stephen
Jenkins.  Jenkins was told by Buddhist priests that Shamballa was located in
the constellation of Orion.

     The entrance to Shamballa on Earth is usually placed in the
trans-Himalayan region.  Some assert it is in the heart of the Gobi Desert
(where there have been allegations of crashed disks and bases).  According to
the explorer Nicholas Roerich, there are caves in the Himalayan foothills that
have subterranean passages.  In one of the these passages, there is a stone
door that has never been opened, because the time for its opening has not yet
arrived.  In 1930, Doreal founded the Brotherhood of the White Temple.  He
says that the entrance to Shamballa is far underground.  He goes on to say that
space bends around Shamballa, and that there is a warp which leads into another
universe.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     Let's get back to something we can have more of a direct handle on.  Many
times psychics have been called upon by investigative authorities to evaluate
situations, and in many cases what they have contributed has been very helpful.

     This was done in the case of animal mutilations back in 1980 by Peter
Jordan, who engaged several psychics to render their impressions from photos
and maps of mutilations and mutilation areas.  What follows is a condensation
of what was found during this exercise.

Name of Psychic: Ronald Mangravite

          o  This animal has been dead a few days.
          o  Some parts are decaying faster than others.
          o  There is an overload of electrolytes in the body possibly due to
             injection of a citrate.
          o  Something wrong with blood.  Picking up higher portion of plasma
             which may be lymphatic fluid.
          o  Two men working on the animal.  Very sharp surgical knives.
          o  Men dressed in black.  Jumpsuits.  Shiny black nylon.
          o  Winch line coming down from chopper.
          o  Men are skilled ex-military.
          o  Something is going to be done with the tissue.
          o  Flurometry connection.  Spectrophotometers.
          o  Choppers are brown or grey.
          o  Underground implications.
          o  Experimentation with different analytical techniques.

Name of Psychic: Elisabeth Lerner

          o  Paramilitary forces.
          o  A serious invasion of American privacy.
          o  Non-American Indians part of secret project.
          o  The word "Annide."
          o  The word "Carmine" or "Karmine."
          o  The symbol "dk."
          o  A new wave of mutilations will strike near southwest New Mexico.
          o  The Hobart Company is involved in this (refrigeration equipment?).
          o  Three huge, doughnut-shaped objects will be seen in conjunction
             with these new mutilations.
          o  Breakthrough in research.
          o  Muscle-relaxant injections.
          o  Someone with the name "Empeda."
          o  This is a Mexican operation.
          o  Names "Kielman" and "Kelman."
          o  Institution with many Lincoln Continentals and Cadillacs.
          o  Laboratory underground.
          o  Lilly Pharmaceuticals.
          o  Roman numerals IVIII [sic].
          o  Name "Stephano."
          o  The number "1714."
          o  Last name "Audler."
          o  First name "Mase."
          o  Last name "Audli."
          o  Jet/rocket labs nearby.
          o  Domes above the ground.
          o  Vehicle ID  MP 1936.  Small jeeps.
          o  Last name "Plento."
          o  Initials "C.B.P." heads operation.  Wears brown military shoes.
             Army.
          o  Number "1161."
          o  Around an oil field.
          o  Place where oil crosses in an "X" pattern.
          o  Chemical engineering connections.
          o  Mustard.
          o  Periscope device on bottom of craft.  Chopper called "The Shark."
          o  Man with blond hair.  English features.  High forehead.  Wears
             square ring.  Insignia reads "C.B.P."  Has something to do with
             ammunition.  Colonel.

Name of Psychic: Nancy Fuchs

          o  Dusk scene.  Men talking about some animal's throat.  Something
             missing.
          o  Cylindrical object.
          o  Long thick object inserted into jugular vein.
          o  Powerful energy flow emanating from device used to kill cattle.
          o  Feeling of tremendous anger and hostility.
          o  Research implication.  Minerals needed for research.
          o  Intimidation of rancher Gomez.
          o  Embryos.
          o  Thousands of samples needed for this breeding effect.
          o  Crossbreeding.
          o  Animal dies in seconds.
          o  Jolts of electricity through animal.
          o  Breeding and genetics involved.
          o  Army background.
          o  Liquid-filled shoes leave no prints.
          o  Marshall.  Army.  Cap with black rim and gold braid.  Pompous.
             White-haired.  Very influential.  Walks into Pentagon whenever he
             pleases.  Commission given 15-18 years ago for mutilation project
             when he was overseas.  Grand Marshall.  Friend of General
             MacArthur.  Lives in Dakotas.  Money invested.  High-priority
             issue.  Tall.  Heavyset.  Only 17 people know of this.
          o  Project with $2.5 million allocated early in game for breeding
             experimentation.  Late 1960s through Pentagon.  More and more
             money invested every year.
          o  Land wanted.  Want to destroy ranchers' prime source of income.
          o  John Mitchell connected to this.
          o  Howard Hughes.
          o  Uranium connection.
          o  Picture complex.  Faction-ridden.
          o  Interest in speeding up growth of cattle.
          o  Importance of pancreas.

     Well, there you have that little presentation.  I don't know what exactly
to make of it, but there it is.  Certainly a non-UFO implication here, however,
it only relates to THREE mutilations.  How about the other 10,000 - most of
which have the UFO connection?  What did I tell you about a multi-level
reality?

     At this point, I will put some references and excerpts from some volumes
that I believe are relevant to all the things we've been talking about.  Where
I feel it is applicable, I will comment on them.


"The Goblin Universe"

     (p222) The ability to materialize mental constructs is not unknown.
Suppose one creates a field with the mind that is strong enough to attract
supercharged particles.  The particles are real but unstable in their
assemblage since the stability depends on the intermediate mental component.

     (p223) Physical aspect of UFOs and other phenomena lie in the behavior of
electromagnetic fields.

     (p124) If all UFO incidents were chance encounters, someone would have
obtained a filmed record or a series of stills years ago.  The only way that
such episodes can be engineered so that they remain total mysteries is for the
entities to have advance knowledge of any situation before it occurs.

     (p117, referencing John Keel) These entities labor to cultivate belief in
various frames of reference, and then they create new manifestation which
support those beliefs.

     (p120) Illness is common after close contact with some beings.

     (p122) Guy Underwood classified primary geomagnetic currents into three
classes: water lines, aquastats, and track lines.  Some magnetic signals appear
as spirals, others are linear.  Gnats and flies congregate above magnetic
patterns.

"Extra-Terrestrials Among Us"

     (p2-3) On several occasions after UFOs flew over missile sites, it was
found that the targeting of the missiles had changed, and the warheads had to
be replaced.

     (p3) On 22 June 1980 a UFO that was 10 miles in diameter was reported over
the Kuwait oil fields.

     (p4) On July 30, 1985, a UFO over Mongolia that was 10 km in diameter was
reported heading south.  It was sighted by a Chinese jet and reported in the
"Japan Times."  The Unites States ignored this report.

     (p8) JANAP-146 specifies up to 10 years in prison and $10,000 in fines for
anyone in government service who makes unauthorized public statements about UFO
phenomena.  The British Official Secrets Act makes similar provisions.

     (p9) Many routes of UFOs take the form of an isosceles triangle.

     (p16) On September 14, 1978, a UFO as big as an ocean liner flew over
Italy, and over Rome on the 15th and 16th.  Comment: this was two weeks before
Pope John Paul I was found dead under suspicious circumstances.  He was killed
between September 28-29.  Autopsy was refused.  It was rumored he intended to
reveal the Fatima message of 1917.

     (p 20) UFOs dart around in daylight at speeds which cannot be seen.

     (p22) An individual having one CE experience usually has another.

     (p24) There is no basis to support psychiatric pathology for UFO
witnesses.

     (p24) Dr. Brian T. Clifford (Pentagon) announces on October 5, 1982, that
contact between U.S. citizens and extraterrestrials on their vehicles is
illegal.  Title 14, Section 1211 of the Code of Federal Regulations (adopted
July 16, 1969, before the first manned lunar landing) says that anyone guilty
of this becomes a wanted criminal to be jailed for one year and fined $5,000.
The NASA administrator is empowered to determine WITH OR WITHOUT A HEARING that
a person has been "ET-exposed" and impose INDETERMINATE quarantine under armed
guard, which cannot be broken even by court order.

     (p89) Mars has a history of transient phenomena.

     (p90) Temporary brilliant spots on Mars were reported by astronomers in
1890, 1892, 1900, 1911, 1924, 1937, 1952, 1954, 1967, and 1971. The
distribution was non-random.  Intensely dark spots, transient in nature, were
reported on Mars in 1925, 1952, and 1954.

     (p93) About 33% of abductees are able to remember the experiences without
hypnotic regression.  66% of the abductees were alone when abducted.

     (p94) Some abductees did not return but vanished permanently or were found
dead after a UFO encounter.

     (p25) Records of the 687 B.C. battle between the Assyrians and the Hebrews
indicate that "a blast from heaven" reduced the bodies of 185,000 Assyrians to
ashes but left their clothes intact.

     (p145) Morris K. Jessup died under mysterious circumstances after a copy
of his book "Case for the UFO" was sent to the Chief of the Office of Naval
Research (ONR) in Washington.

     (p146 - comments from "Case for the UFO")

          o  Falls from the sky of flesh, blood, reptiles, etc., were due to
             either spoiled food or cleaning of holding tanks.
          o  Comments describe TWO different space races who share the planet
             with us without our knowledge.  They are not visitors - they have
             been here longer than we have.  They feel more at ease in the
             ocean.
          o  The little men were almost wiped out by a serpent race identified
             only as the "S-men."  S-men are ravenous for red meat, extremely
             materialistic, and are greedy for power.  Comment: Sounds like the
             Deros of Shavarian fame.

     (p147) Thanks to Allen Dulles in partnership with Reinhard Gehlen, the
Gestapo was transplanted intact into the United States system as the CIA,
without the knowledge or consent of American citizens.  Comment: Remember
Reagan placing wreaths on graves of SS stormtroopers at the 40th anniversary of
WWII?  Roots of that symbolic gesture go deep.

     (p147) Reference the Intelligence Identity Protection Act of 1981: Freedom
to speak about anything but the CIA.  Some claim that concentration camps have
already been built.  Activation was sealed by Executive Order Rex 84.

     (p148) Jessup: "I believe that space structures of 5-10 miles in diameter
are sufficiently large to produce intelligently directed storms."

     (p150) Alleged alien comment in annotated edition of "Case for the UFO":
"Men frozen helpless make good prey."
 
     (p151) Dr. James E. McDonald thought that the Federal Power Commission was
evading the evidence concerning UFO involvement in the total power failure that
paralyzed New York on July 13, 1965, and dared to say so in front of a
Congressional committee.

     (p152) On June 13, 1971, James E. McDonald was found dead under mysterious
circumstances, shot through the head with a pistol by his side.

     (p153) Murder disguised as suicide is one of the well-known specialties of
the CIA.

     (p153) There is ample documentation suggesting that among the highest-
priority covert operations of the CIA are those supplying heroin to the Mafia.
The "war on drugs" is in fact a war on the independent drug dealer who
constitutes a threat to the Mafia monopoly.  Comment: Additional ways to subdue
the population or eliminate undesirables?

     (p156) Karen Silkwood's murder disguised as auto accident.

     (p159) George Adamski, contactee in the 1950s had a special government
passport.  Possible CIA disinformation agent.

     (p162) Although mutilations were reported in England as early as
1904-1905, ("Winter of Weirdness"), the large-scale operations there began in
1973.

     (p163) A rancher and his sons saw a UFO as big as a hotel which was
accompanied by four smaller ones.  Rectangular in shape, 300-400 feet long, and
60 feet high.  A helicopter approached it and turned into a small UFO.

     (p163) Phantom cars appear on roads, follow people, and disappear.

     (p163) A rancher and his wife looked at a UFO 5/8 of a mile away and
reported that two appendages emerged from the egg-shaped object.

     (p164) Apparently UFOs have the capability of invisibility.

     (p164) Materialization of a Bigfoot before a witness.

     (p164) Dematerialization of Bigfoot before witness who shot it with a
16-gauge shotgun at point-blank range into its stomach.

     (p166) On August 21, 1975, a sheriff was chasing an unmarked helicopter in
his plane in southwestern Nebraska at 0430 when the lights on the helicopter
went out, and the only thing seem on the ground was a missile silo.

     (p166) About the time mutilations began in earnest (1973 wave), a new
branch of science was beginning to develop - biogeochemistry - analysis of
mineral and oil deposits by analysis of tissues of herbivorous animals.

     (p168) An elderly lady in Arkansas in 1979 injured herself and was cut
during a fall.  The injuries were repaired by two aliens, who gave her a piece
of metal with pyramids and six-pointed stars on it.  The aliens told her they
"consumed juice," but not the kind consumed by humans.  Six weeks later, she
was out looking for her dog and spotted a horse lying on its side, unconscious.

     Two men in white, dressed like surgeons, were at work on the horse.  There
were two Air Force helicopters parked in the clearing, two men in Air Force
uniforms, and the same two aliens who had helped her after her fall.  The lady
was spotted by the group and she was overtaken by a helicopter which flashed a
blue light on her which burned her clothing.  Help arrived as the helicopter
retreated, and she was brought to the local hospital.  People having nothing to
do with the hospital staff began turning up to question her.  After release she
was harassed at all hours by strangers who insisted on questioning her,
repeating the same questions over and over again.  The couple moved to a
different state, only to have it start all over again.  MUFON began
investigating this case, but as of 1986 had not yet made public its
conclusions.  Research into the case began in 1980.

     (p171) Tissue samples taken from a carcass revealed the presence of
chlorpromazine, a tranquilizer.

     (p171 comment by Gabe Valdez) "Whoever is doing these mutilations are
highly organized and have a lot of resources."

     (p172) The theory of biogeochemical basis for the mutilations fails to
account for the fact that mutilations are worldwide.

     (p174) When FBI agent Rommel was given $50K to investigate the mutilations
in one district in New Mexico, all mutilations in that district stopped during
the year.

     (p177) The Condon Report, Rommel Report, and the Warren Report all have a
resemblance.

     (p177) The human tendency to avoid facing unpleasant facts may allow
parasitic entities to "farm us."

     (p178) A seven-year-old heifer was found whose unborn calf had been
removed with breaking the placental bag.

     (p181) U.S. Senate lied to by Pentagon in 1968 during Senate hearings on
UFOs.

     (p200) In an anonymous letter to a Denver paper on April 8, 1983, it was
told that the mutilations are being done by a secret government group called
Delta.  Animal parts are used to test effects of germ warfare and poison
(cyanide and dioxin) they are testing on civilians in America.  Testing is
associated with black helicopters.  Helicopters are also used to ferry heroin
and cocaine.  Delta bases said to be all underground on Indian Reservations. 
HQ for operations and where a lot of choppers are based in 28 miles east of
Albuquerque on I-40, then 14 miles north on a dirt road into the Laguna Indian
Reservation.  Comment: Disinformation attempt?

     (p204, UPI story, February 2, 1984) Dr. James Womack at Texas A&M
University announced his discovery that humans share "perfect match"
chromosomes with cattle.  The perfect match is with portions of the 21st
chromosome pair, a strand known to carry characteristics of Mongolism or Down's
Syndrome, associated with mental retardation.  Dr. Womack says, "We must have
more in common than previously believed."

     (p205, 1984 letter) A recent arrival on the nutritional scene is
protomorphogens, or glandulars - ground up glands of cattle.  If one takes
these for a year you get "hooked" on them.  Your own glands stop producing
hormones.  Many EBEs have no alimentary canals and no glands.  In some cancer
clinics, these glandulars are used to treat cancer victims, and so are glands
from human fetuses.

     (p206) What is happening with the mutilations would make sense in human
terms if the location on which the cattle grazed was important, or the parts
taken could be used geobiologically (which they aren't).

     (p208) UFOs are: Extraterrestrial, ultraterrestrial, interdimensional, and
time travelers.

     (p208) Some UFOs behave as if the UFO itself was a living organism.
Comment: Refer to Trevor James Constable's book _Sky Creatures_ for a
discussion of biological aeroforms, of _Flying Saucers at Etibi-Raa_ by Wendell
Stevens for a discussion of just that subject.

     (p208) Entities with cyborg-like traits, having both mechanical and
biological features, turn up quite frequently in reports.

     (p208) It is odd that among the viruses there are some that look like
UFOs, like T. Bacteriophage.  Do some UFO have the ability to operate in the
micro-dimension of viruses?

     (p209) Anyone with more access to even one more dimension than we have
access to could evade our most carefully planned investigations indefinitely.

     (p210) Modern brain capacity: 1300cc
            Cro-magnon man: 1400cc
            Baskop man (megroid [sic] race): 1800cc

            The last two appeared quite suddenly.

     (p210) Theory of Max H. Flindt attributes paradoxically rapid development
of the human brain to interbreeding between primitive humanity and ETs.

     According to Flindt, schizophrenia is caused by subconscious racial memory
of the ET branch of the family tree, longing for home.  Considerable
differences between glandular and nervous systems between primitive humans and
ETs would provide a basis for traumatic tension associated with regressed
memory.

     (p210) Our civilization has forgotten the existence of other intelligent
beings in the universe.

     (p211) The idea that Homo Sapiens are unique is becoming no longer
tenable.

     Well, as if this weren't enough, let's examine the basic allegations that
were raised by Gary Stollman when he held an empty BB gun to David Horowitz on
KNBC Channel 4, Los Angeles, in October, 1987.  Gary clearly though that he was
alone in his knowledge, and evidently turned to desperation to have the public 
become aware of what he knew.  For the sake of brevity, I will simply summarize
the allegations, and make comments where I wish to do so:

          o  His physical father is in fact a clone created by the CIA and
             alien forces.
          o  Cloning is a part of a plot to overthrow the U.S government.
          o  The CIA maintains mental-retraining hospitals.
          o  Phones were turned off at Rohlman Psychiatric Hospital in
             Cincinnati for 48 hours after his arrival.
          o  A former CIA official had an interview on KPFK radio in which he
             told a college audience that the CIA has towed barges across New
             York Harbor that were disease-ridden.
          o  The CIA may have created the AIDS virus to wipe out the gay
             population.
          o  The CIA assassinated John F. Kennedy and the 22 material witnesses
             who died within two years.
          o  He demands that the Air Force release all information on UFOs.
          o  He demands that the information about Hanger 18 at Wright-
             Patterson [AFB] be released.
          o  He relates that he spoke to a girl at Florida Junior College who
             told him that seven of her friends had been "replaced."
          o  The CIA doesn't trust people on computers.
          o  Individuals at the Optimist Boys School in Pasadena were recruited
             by others and given false IDs and birth certificates.
          o  There is a secret group led by the President's own staff.
          o  There are beings around with the power to teleport instantly and
             do the same to others; who can read and control minds, and
             transform matter into other forms and create it at will.
          o  He asks for a congressional investigation and federal protection.
          o  He states that he cannot harm anyone with an empty BB gun.

     Well, what do you think?  [Name deleted in original, replaced with the
word "MUFON"] contacted Mr. Stollman's lawyer in December, 1987, and told him
that some of what Gary had said may be true.  His lawyer promptly made himself
scarce.

     For some of you who keep an eye on the news, the President (Reagan) has
said some mighty interesting things in some speeches of his:

     To the students of Fallston High School in Fallston, Maryland, on December
4, 1985, he said:

     "I couldn't but - one point in our discussions with General Secretary
Gorbachev - when you stop to think that we're all God's children, wherever we
may live in the world, I couldn't help but say to him, just think how easy his
task and mine might be in these meetings that we held if suddenly there was a
threat to this world from some other species from another planet outside in the
universe.  We'd forget all the little local differences that we have between
our countries and we would find out once and for all that we really are all
human beings on this earth together.  Well, I don't suppose we can wait for
some alien race to come down and threaten us...."

     To the 42nd General Assembly of the United Nations, September 21,
1987:

     "In our obsession with antagonisms of the moment, we often forget how much
unites all the members of humanity.  Perhaps we need some outside universal
threat to make us recognize this common bond.  I occasionally think how quickly
our differences worldwide would vanish if we were facing an alien threat from
outside this world.  And yet, I ask you, is not an alien force already among
us?  What could be more alien to the universal aspirations of our peoples than
war and the threat of war?"


                            GENERAL TYPES OF ENTITIES


     The Greys are known to be of three types:

          o  Grey 1: 3.5 feet tall.  Large head.  Large slanted eyes.  Worship
             Technology and don't care about us.  Type popularized in
             "Communion" by Strieber.
          o  Grey 2: Same general appearance, although has a different finger
             arrangement and a slightly different face.  More sophisticated t
             than Grey 1.  They possess a degree of common sense and are
             somewhat passive.  It is not known if they require the secretions
             needed by Grey 1.
          o  Grey 3: Same basic type.  Lips thinner.  Subservient to other two
             types.

     Other entities known to frequent this planet:

          o  Blonds/Swedes/Nordics: Known by any of these names.  Similar to
             us.  Blond hair, blue eyes.  Will not break law of non-
             interference to help us.  Would only intervene if the Greys'
             activity would affect other parts of the universe.
          o  Interdimensional: Entities that can assume a variety of shapes.
             Basically of a peaceful nature.
          o  Short Humanoids: 1.5 to 2.5 feet tall, skin bluish in color.  Seen
             quite frequently in Mexico near Chihuahua.
          o  Hairy Dwarfs: 4 feet tall.  Weigh about 35 pounds.  Hairy.
             Neutral.  Respect intelligent life.
          o  Very Tall Race: Look like us but 7-8 feet tall.  United with the
             Swedes.
          o  Nordic Clones: Appear similar to us but with grey tinge to their
             skin.  These are drones created by the Greys.  Child-like
             mentality.

          o  Men-In-Black (MIB): Oriental or olive-skinned.  Eyes sensitive to
             light.  Eyes have vertical pupils.  Very pale skin in some types.
             Do not conform easily to our social patterns.  Usually wear black
             clothes, drive black cars, and wear sunglasses.  In groups they
             all dress alike.  Sometimes time-disoriented.  They cannot handle
             a psychological "curve-ball" or interruption to their plan.  Often
             intimidate UFO witnesses and impersonate government officials.
             Equivalent of our CIA.  From another galaxy.

     Although there are some 40 or more known types of aliens visiting our
world at the present time, these are the most commonly seen types.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     Extract of information from: _UFO Contact from Undersea_ by Sanchez/
Stevens

Section 1: Regression session, Filiberto Cardenas (subject)
           Event date: 3 January 1979 UFO CEIII
           During the regression session(s) the following information came
           forth:

1. Subject was taken to one of three pyramid bases.  Two pyramid bases are
under ocean, one on land.  Subject was taken to base between Berin and Santiago
of the coast of Chile.  Other underwater base is in the Atlantic in an
unspecified location.  The base was entered through an underwater tunnel.  The
aliens stated that they had been there 36 months at that time.
2. Aliens told the subject that there were six (6) other individuals whom the
aliens had contacted.
3. Subject stated that the aliens voiced that they were eventually going to
make themselves known to the world.
4. Aliens stated that they control the Chinese, and they have provided the
Chinese with a device that can "paralyze cities and towns completely."
5. Aliens stated that the device will cause a change that "is going to be
something for which the world cannot wait."  The Chinese are to provoke certain
unspecified changes, and that in those changes, "people who are negative will
disappear."
6. Subject remembers seeing (future) scenes of people running disoriented along
roads, and that there is a disaster coming.
7. Details of underwater tunnel described as walls of " firmed water," not
rock.  The ship evidently generated a force field which repelled the water
around it.
8. Devices were supposedly installed in subject's head by aliens.  Subsequent
x-rays revealed nothing.

(Session 3)

1. First contact with these groups of aliens began 4,000 years ago.
2. It has been thousands of years since this group last descended to earth.
3. If progress on earth does not continue, aliens will use more forceful
demonstrations to get their point across that we must have peace and progress.
4. Subject was interrogated for 15 days after the events by US security and
intelligence services.
5. Information from aliens had also to do with "an atrocity in the plans
certain forces on earth had planned."
6. Subject was seven years old when contact with aliens first occurred.
7. Aliens have ability to dematerialize their craft.
8. Aliens stated that we should beware of other alien groups who will present
themselves in a good light but if they pursue "bad objectives against us they
could do two things.  They could destroy this planet with the same arms that
this planet has, or on the contrary, transport away all our arms in one
operation, which would take no more than 20 minutes of our time.  They can be
visible or not, whatever they choose."
8. [sic] Treatise references 81 other crossbreeds from (negative) aliens who
have performed duties on earth.  Half alien-half Earthling = crossbreed.
9. Aliens spoke of great portions of land and whole cities will [sic]
disappear.  Mexico City and major cities in California.


History and Operations - Operation Trojan Horse

     The amusing little mystery of flying saucers slowly evolves into a
complicated series of coincidences and paradoxes as we plunge deeper and deeper
into the data, excluding nothing, and considering everything as objectively as
possible.

     Our skies have been filled with "Trojan Horses" throughout history, and
like the original Trojan Horse, they SEEM to conceal hostile intent.

     Several facts are now apparent:

          o  The objects have always chosen to operate in a clandestine manner,
             furtively choosing the hours of darkness for their enigmatic
             activities over thinly-populated areas, where the possibility of
             being detected is slight.
          o  The hostility factor is further supported by the fact that the
             objects chose, most often, to appear in forms which we can readily
             accept and explain to our own satisfaction - ranging from
             dirigibles to meteors and conventional-appearing airplanes.
          o  The objects of unusual configuration, undoubtedly constituting a
             deceptive minority of all the paraphysical objects flitting about
             in our atmosphere.

     In other words, flying saucers are not at all what we have hoped they
were.  They are a part of something else.  John A. Keel called that something
else "Operation Trojan Horse."

     When one really digs into UFO literature, it readily becomes clear that
the ultraterrestrials deliberately conveyed whatever impression that would meet
the available frame of reference for that time.

     Until 1848, the religious frame of reference was constantly used by the
phenomenon.  As man's technology improved many of our old beliefs were
discarded and the "phenomenon" was obliged to update its manifestations and
establish new frames of reference.  No more objects were seen in 1947 than had
been seen in 1847.  We were simply seeing them in a new way.  A new game was
being played with us.

     A new game has emerged: the artifact or hardware game.  The phenomenon has
always obliged us by planting false evidence all over the landscape.

     UFO cultists trapped themselves into a hopeless situation almost from the
outset.  The apparent purpose of most of the landings seems to have been to
advance belief in the frame of reference, not to provide absolute proof that
the frame of reference is authentic.

Physical Evidence

     All kinds of junk have fallen out of the sky throughout recorded history.
Ivan T. Sanderson has in his files extensive lists that go back to Roman times.
Ridiculous things such as stone pillars and heavy metal wheels have come
crashing out of the blue, and there are countless cases of ice blocks, some
weighing hundreds of pounds, dropping all over this planet.  The flying
saucers have been spewing all kinds of trash all over the landscape.  In nearly
every instance, these materials always prove to be ordinary earthly substances
like magnesium, aluminum, chromium, and even plain old tin.  Each of these
incidents give the skeptics new ammunition.

     Mysterious hollow spheres have also been dropping out of the sky all over
the world.  Three such spheres were found in the Australian desert in 1963.
They were about 14 inches in diameter and had a shiny polished surface.
Efforts to open the spheres failed, and they were turned over to the USAF.
Other metal spheres have dropped out of the sky in Mexico (1967) and Conway,
Arkansas (1967).  The Mexican steel ball was identified as titanium, the one in
Arkansas - steel.

     Smaller colored spheres were found scattered over the French countryside
in 1966-67, as if it had been raining balls there.  Where is all this stuff
coming from?  The same place as the stone pillars and blocks of ice.
Innumerable cases of contact and landings have been flushed down the ufological
drain because of the deliberate "negative factors."  Sincere witnesses have
actually been ruined because the amateur UFO investigators have accused them of
being liars and worse.

     Another fascinating game which the ufonauts play with a vengeance is the
"repair" gambit.  Beginning in 1897, there has been an endless stream of
stories and reports, many from reliable witnesses, on how they encountered a
grounded UFO and observed the occupants making repairs of some kind.  The basic
details in all these stories are so similar that it seems as if the ufonauts
are following a carefully rehearsed procedure.

     Generally speaking, there are three (3) types of beings observed in
relation to UFOs:

          o  Normal-looking people, including females.
          o  Oriental, dark-skinned beings.
          o  Unidentifiable creatures, who have made a real effort to hide from
             witnesses.

     Oddly enough, when all the reports and the data are in, the scope of the
phenomenon and the overwhelming quantity of reports negates its validity.  An
analysis of cases indicates that flying saucers are not, in most cases, stable
machines requiring fuel, maintenance, and logistical support.  Most of them
are, in all probability, transmutations of energy from other dimensions and do
not exist in the same way that this paper exists.

     The UFO phenomenon seems to be largely subjective: that is, specific kinds
of people become involved and are actually manipulated by the phenomenon in the
same way that it manipulates matter.  These subjective experiences are far more
important to our study than the "random" superficial sightings.  We are obliged
to forget about the sightings and concentrate on the claims and experiences of
the contactees.

     Thousands of UFO photos have been taken since 1882.  There's just one
problem.  With very few exceptions, no two UFO photos are alike.  The sightings
force two unacceptable answers upon us:

          o  All the witnesses were mistaken or lying.
          o  Some tremendous unknown civilization is exerting an all-out effort
             to manufacture thousands of different types of UFOs and is sending
             them all to our planet.

     The governments of the world overtly have maintained variations of the
first proposal.  UFO enthusiasts accept the second.  There is a third proposal
which merits some attention: some "hard" objects definitely exist as temporary
materializations from other dimensions.  They leave indentations in the ground
when they land.  Witnesses have touched them and even been inside them.  These
"hard" objects may be decoys to cover the multitudinous activities of the
"soft" objects.  The "soft" objects hold one of the keys of the mystery.  There
are countless sightings of objects which changed size and shape in front of
witnesses who often get the impression that it was alive, that it was not
behaving like a mechanical object at all.

     There is no question at all that there are intelligences that can
manipulate or materialize any kind of object into our dimension.  Let's take a
look, for a second, at the electromagnetic spectrum.  As you know, our visual
spectrum makes up a small portion of the whole.  Look at what's involved with
UFOs:

Ultraviolet
Blue        UFO ENTRY FIELD    _________________
Cyan        ____________________________________
Green                           Visible
Yellow
Red         __________________  Spectrum
Magenta                        _________________
Infra-red   UFO DEPARTURE
Heat           FIELD
Radio

     If you will relate this to cases that you are familiar with, as far as
appearance, spectrum shift when in flight, etc., you will see the applicability
of the above diagram.

     When UFO stabilize in our dimension they radiate energy on all frequencies
and become glowing white.  Radical maneuvers require a frequency alteration,
which produces color changes.  It is interesting to note that in Blue Book
Report 14, they replaced the phrase "Electromagnetic Phenomenon" with the word
"Unknown" in a majority of those cases.  Why?  There is no doubt that again, a
situation exists where we have multiple realities within the UFO realm as well.
It is clear that we are not dealing with random ET visitors.  It has an extreme
element of intention to do with all of it.  Mutilations started in April, 1897,
with the abduction of Alexander Hamilton's calf, witnessed by several people.
That is one of the constants that has been with us that has not changed frame
of reference.  How many people give thought to the three dark-skinned wise men
who appeared before the birth of Jesus, spread the reality of the happening,
and disappeared again.  All the dark-skinned men in threes.  MIB.  It makes you
wonder.  Hmmmm.


Charting the Enigma

     Well, here we are again.  Taking a sample of 33% of 10,000 or so cases, or
about 3,330 cases, we find that 730 are so-called Type I, a low-level object
observed and reported by reliable witnesses.  It was found that 2,600 were Type
II, high-altitude objects performing in a controlled manner and distinct from
normal aircraft and natural phenomena.  The time of the sightings depends on
where you are.  If you are in a rural area, sightings conveniently begin after
10 p.m.  A populated area would have them between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m.  For some
reason, in many "flaps," Wednesday had about 20.5% of the sightings.  Hmmm.

     Now, if the UFO phenomenon (and I dislike that word) had a purely psychic
basis then I would think there would be more sightings on a Saturday, when
people are statistically out and about than on Wednesday.  There are notable
exceptions to everything of course, one of which was the "flap" of August 16,
1966, which was on a Tuesday.

     Reports seem to cluster within political boundaries of states, as if there
were a methodical exploration of states from border to border.  If the UFO were
a natural occurrence, one would expect otherwise.

     Thousands of sightings can be fitted into the "great circle" route, and
often the dates are staggered so that it appears that the phenomenon moves
systematically from point to point.

     Every state in the United States has from two to ten "windows."  These are
areas where UFOs appear repeatedly year after year.  The objects will appear in
these places and pursue courses confined to sectors with a radius of about 200
miles.  The great circle from Canada (not to be confused with the traditional
Great Circle) in the northwest through the central states and back into
northeast Canada is a major window.  Hundreds of smaller windows lie within
that circle.  Another major window is centered in the Gulf of Mexico and
encompasses much of Mexico, Texas and the Southwest.

     As mentioned previously, many windows center directly over areas of
magnetic deviation.

     UFOs seem to congregate about the highest available hills in these window
areas.  They become visible in these centers and then radiate outward,
traveling sometimes 100-200 miles before disappearing again.

     Among the great heaps of neglected and ignored UFO data, we find hundreds
of "minipeople" accounts.  These are very rarely published anywhere because
they tend to be so unbelievable.  Most of them are identical to the fairy and
gnome stories of yesteryear.  Witnesses to these events can experience
conjunctivitis, akinesia (paralysis), amnesia, and the other effects often
noted by witnesses to more conventional events.  One notable event is one
that occurred in Seattle, Washington, in the latter part of August, 1965.  A
woman awoke around 2 a.m. and discovered she could not move a muscle or make a
sound.  Her window was open, and suddenly a tiny, football-sized dull-grey
object floated through the window and hovered over the carpet near her bed.
Three legs lowered from the object and it settled to the floor.  A small ramp
extended from it and five or six tiny people clambered out and seemed to work
on some kind of repairs on the object.  They wore tight-fitting clothing.  When
they were finished, they got in and the object took off and sailed out the
window.  At that point, she was able to move.  The case was investigated by J.
Russell Jenkins of Seattle.

     You can readily see why almost none of these kinds of stories ever appear
in print, except in occult-oriented literature.  Nevertheless, if we hope to
assess the true UFO situation, we must examine all these stories.  We can learn
nothing by considering only those incidents which are emotionally and
intellectually acceptable to us.
 ______________________________________________________________________________

     TIME is one of the most important aspects of the UFO thing.  It plays a
strange but significant role.  Part of the answer may not lie in the stars but
in the clock ticking on your fireplace.

     Our world exists in three dimensions.  We can move in many directions
within these dimensions.  Space does not exist except when we make it exist.
To us, the distance between atoms in our matter is so minute that it can only
be calculated with hypothetical measurements.  Yet, if we lived on an atom, and
our size was relative to its size, the distance to the next atom would seem
awesome.

     There is another man-made measurement called time.  Unlike the other three
dimensions, time has us seemingly trapped.  Time becomes very real to us, and
it appears that we couldn't live without it.  Yet time doesn't really exist at
all.  This moment exists to us.  Does this mean the same moment is being shared
by other planets?

     The UFO phenomenon does seem to be controlled.  It does follow intelligent
patterns.  If the objects themselves are manifestations of higher energies,
then something has to manipulate those energies somehow and reduce them to the
visible frequencies.  Not only do they enter the visible frequencies, but they
take forms which seem physical and real to us, and they carry out actions which
seem to be intelligent.

     Thus we arrive at the source.  The source has to be a form of intelligent
energy operating at the highest possible point of the frequency spectrum.  If
such an energy exists at all, it might permeate the universe and maintain equal
control of each component part.  Because of its very high frequency, so high
that the energy particles are virtually standing still, the source has no need
to replenish itself in any way that would be acceptable to our environmental
sciences.  It could actually create and destroy matter by manipulating the
lower energies.  It would be timeless, because it exists beyond all time
fields.  It would be infinite because it is not confined by three-dimensional
"space."

     Children.  Children figure neatly into this, and they always have.  The
child's mind, especially before the so-called age of reason when the logic
circuits begin to form, is a clear instrument, open and uninfluenced by
opinions and conclusions.  This is an important point in the UFO mystery.

     Perhaps if we were in a pure energy state, each particle of energy would
itself serve as a synapse, and information could be stored by a slight
alteration in frequency.  All the memory fragments of a rose, for example,
would be recorded at one frequency, and the whole energy form could tune into
that memory by adjusting frequencies, as we might adjust a radio receiver.  In
other words, no complex circuitry would be required.  No body would be
necessary.  The energy patterns would not need material form.  It would
permeate the entire universe.  It could surround you completely at this very
moment and be aware of all the feeble impulses of low energy passing through
your brain.  If it so desired, it could control those pulses and thus control
your thoughts.  Man has always been aware of this intelligent energy or force.
He has always worshipped it.

     Our first conclusion is that the UFOs originate from beyond our own time
frame or time cycle.  Our second conclusion is that the source has total
foreknowledge of human events and even of individual lives.  Since time and
space are not absolutes, these two conclusions are compatible.

     It is that all human events occur simultaneously when viewed by a greater
intelligence.  If a greater intelligence wants to communicate with a lower
form, all kinds of problems are presented.  The communication must be conducted
in a manner which will be meaningful and understandable to the lower life form.
An acceptable frame of reference must be found and utilized.

     UFO phenomenon, especially the "soft" ones, are frequently reflective;
that is, the observed manifestations seem to be deliberately tailored and
adjusted to the individual beliefs and attitudes of the witnesses.  Contactees
are given information which, in most cases, conforms to their beliefs.  UFO
researchers who concentrate on one particular aspect or theory find themselves
inundated with seemingly reliable reports which seem to substantiate that
theory.

     John Keel's extensive experiences with this reflective factor led him to
carry out weird experiments which confirmed that a large part of the reported
data is engineered and deliberately false.  The witnesses are not the
perpetrators, but merely the victims.

     The apparent purpose of all this false data is multifold.  Much of it is
meant to create confusion and diversion.  Some of it has served to support
certain beliefs which were erroneous but which would serve as stepping-stones
to the higher, more complex truth.  Whole generations have come and gone,
happily believing in the false data, unaware that they were mere links in the
chain.

     If it were all understood too soon, we might crumble under the weight of
the truth.  This earth is covered with windows into those other unseen worlds.
If we had the instruments to detect them, we would find that these windows are
the focal points for super high-frequency waves - the "rays" of ancient lore.
These rays might come from Orion or the Pleiades as the ancients claimed, or
they might be part of the great force that emanates throughout the universe.
The UFOs have given us the evidence that such rays exist.  Now, slowly, we are
being told why.

     It is also apparent that some entities are having a good laugh at our
expense.  As mentioned before, literature indicates that the phenomenon
carefully cultivated the religious frame of reference in early times, just as
the modern manifestations have carefully supported the extraterrestrial frame
of reference.

     The Devil's emissaries of yesteryear have been replaced by the mysterious
"men in black."  A major, but little-explored, aspect of the UFO phenomenon is
therefore theological and philosophical rather than purely scientific.  The UFO
problem can never be untangled by physicists and scientists unless they are men
who also are schooled in the other disciplines.

     The earth was occupied before man arrived or was created.  That's an
important point to consider.  The original occupants were paraphysical and
possessed the power of transmutation of matter.  Man was the interloper.  The
inevitable conflict arose between physical man and the paraphysical owners of
the planet.  Man accepted the interpretation that this conflict raged between
his creator and the Devil.  The religious viewpoint has always been that the
Devil has been attacking man (trying to get rid of him) by causing havoc upon
him.  There is historical and modern proof that this may be so.

     It is interesting that parapsychologists have long concluded that the
paralysis that contactees experience is a contributing cause; that the entity
may materialize by utilizing energy from the percipient himself.

     John Keel has in his files hundreds of cases, some of which have now been
investigated by qualified psychiatrists, in which young men and women obsessed
with the UFO phenomenon have suffered frightening visits from apparitions,
followed up by mysterious black Cadillacs which appeared and disappeared
suddenly, and have been terrified into giving up their pursuit of the UFOs.
The phenomenon is again reflective in nature; the more frightened the victim
becomes, the more the manifestations are escalated.  Think about it.


The Other Side of the Coin

     There is a balance in nature, and there also seems to be a balance in the
UFO picture.  People have actually died after exposure to the gamma and UV rays
from UFOs.  But other people have actually had their ailments cured by similar
rays.  Occult literature is filled with accounts of this type.

     Except for those who might be specially constructed for incubus-succubus
activities, it does appear that our "angels" and "spacemen" come from a world,
in many cases, with sex - and very probably, a world without an organized
society; a world in which each individual is merely a unit in the whole and is
totally controlled by the collective intelligence or energy mass of that whole.
In other words, these beings, or some of them anyway, have no free will.  They
are slaves of a very high order.  Often they try to convey this to percipients
with their statements, "We are One," "We are in bondage."

     We face a great task in trying to isolate the UFO phenomenon from the
larger and more important "big picture," the overall situation of which the
UFOs are merely a small part.

     Elemental beings are another aspect of the world we live in.  Children see
them more than adults, perhaps for the reasons described before.  Historical
records certainly indicate that the little people have always existed all over
this planet; that they possess the power of flight, the power of invisibility,
and, to varying degrees, the power to dominate and control the human mind.
Accounts of little humanoids with supernatural powers can be found in almost
every culture.

     The manifestations have remained the same throughout history.  Only our
interpretations of those events have changed.  It brought the birth of
Spiritualism, which was in its heyday in the 1850s and 1860s, and was just
another form of communication between the ultraterrestrials and ourselves.

     UFO flaps also parallel outbreaks of poltergeist cases.  It all ties in
together.

     Assuming that each discovered historical report represents a larger number
of unpublished or undiscovered reports, just as today's UFO reports represent
on the average 250 unreported or unpublished sightings, we can conclude that a
flap condition existed, for example, in the years 1820, 1834, 1844, 1846, and
1849.  We also find that there was an outbreak of poltergeists in 1835, 1846,
and 1849.

     As the 19th century progressed, reporting improved, and we are able to
make more precise correlations.  A UFO flap took place in 1850, and there was
also a series of poltergeist cases.  A larger poltergeist outbreak occurred in
1867, following flaps in 1863-64.  UFO activity became more intense beginning
in 1870, and there were notable flaps in 1872, 1877, and 1879.  The 1880s
produced a major explosion of all kinds of phenomena, including the sudden
disappearance of people.  Poltergeist cases were in abundance in that decade,
particularly in the big flap years of 1883 and 1885.

     Astrophysicist Morris K. Jessup labeled the years 1877-87 the "Incredible
Decade" after scouring astronomical journals of the period.  Astronomers made
some remarkable discoveries during those years.  The previously unobserved
satellites of Mars popped into view in 1877, new craters appeared on the moon,
all kinds of strange objects flitted around the upper atmosphere.

     The trance phenomenon deserves extensive study because so many aspects of
it are directly related to the contactee phenomenon.  In both, you will find
the same contradictions.  There seem to be both good and evil forces at work.
The good guys latch onto people with particularly receptive minds and turn them
into trance mediums and the bad guys use the same methods to tamper with the
minds of contactees and even to commit murder indirectly.  Since incidents of
these types can be traced throughout history, it seems probably that these
forces have always been here on this planet.  Do the ultraterrestrials really
care about us?  There is much evidence to suggest that they don't.  They care
only to the extent that we can fulfill our enigmatic use to them.

     There have been innumerable psychic hoaxes for the past 150 years, and
many of these parallel the UFO hoaxes.  In ufology we have to contend with the
teenager's hot air balloon, and in psychic phenomenon we have to worry about
youngsters firing rocks at houses.  There are, however, more UFO sightings than
there are plastic balloons, and more poltergeists dumping rocks in living rooms
than there are wild-eyed youngsters with slingshots.  There are also more
ultraterrestrial entities than either the occultists or the UFO researchers can
dream of.

     Giant winged beings, usually described as headless, are an integral part
of the UFO phenomenon.  Winged human forms have been seen flying over many
areas of the world.  John A. Keel wrote a book called the _Mothman Prophecies
and Gray Barker a book called _The Silver Bridge_ that go into some detail.
They are usually described as having blazing red eyes set deep in their
shoulders.

     On May 13, 1917, three girls in Portugal were in the meadows of a place
called Cova da Iria outside of Fatima, Portugal, when they saw a flash of light
in the clear sky.  They ran for shelter under a tree, thinking that was
lightning.  When they reached the tree, they stopped in amazement, for there
hovering just above a 3-foot evergreen nearby, a brilliant globe of light hung
suspended.

     Within this globe there was an entity garbed in a luminous white robe with
a face of light which dazzled and hurt the eyes.

     The figure stated that it was from heaven, and asked the girls to come
there on the 13th day, for six months in succession.  On October 13, 1917, an
estimated 70,000 people had gathered at the site.  Suddenly the crowd screamed,
for something came through the clouds: a huge silver disk which rotated rapidly
as it descended towards the crowd.  It seemed to change color, going through
the spectrum.  These gyrations continued for ten minutes.  Miles from there,
others were also watching the same object.

     The incident at Fatima was obviously a carefully planned and deliberately
executed demonstration.  The major prophecies of Fatima had been written down
and sealed in an envelope, and turned over to the Vatican.  They were supposed
to be revealed to the world in 1960.  The secret of Fatima?  One Pope was
murdered after only 30 days in office when the Vatican thought he would reveal
it.  It is said to be a prediction of the end of the world.  The demonstration
was therefore a failure as far as the ultraterrestrials were concerned.  Such
demos proved highly effective in Biblical times, but times were changing and
new methods were called for.

     A similar event such as Fatima took place in Garabandal, Germany, on July
2, 1961.  Even more startling, on the entity's right side they could see "a
square of red fire framing a triangle with an eye and some writing.  The
lettering was in an old Oriental script."  The Third Eye.  Haven't we heard of
that before?

     Remember the Nation of the Third Eye -- the MIB. etc?


                             ADDENDUM BY THE AUTHOR


Gravitational Propulsion

     Well, I have gotten this far in explaining some things to you.  I might as
well turn to my favorite subject of all - gravitational propulsion.  The best
place to start is with the efforts of a personal acquaintance of mine who had
the good fortune to meet in England - Mr. J. R. Searl.  His investigations
into gravitational propulsion have proven to be quite revealing - he's done it,
and I want to tell you about it.

     In 1949, he was employed by the Midlands Board as an electronic fitter.
He was very enthusiastic about the subject of electricity, though he had no
formal education on the subject other than was required by his job.  Unhindered
by conventional ideas about electricity, he carried out his own investigation
into the subject.  During work on electrical motors and generators, he noticed
that a small electromotive force (EMF) was produced by the spinning metal parts
- the negative toward the outside and the positive toward the rotational axis.
In 1950, he experimented with rotating slip rings and measured a small EMF on a
conventional meter.  He also noticed that when the rings were spinning freely
and no electrical current was taken, his hair bristled.  His conclusions were
that free electrons in the metal were spun out by centrifugal force being
produced by the static field in the metal.  He then decided to build a
generator on the same principle.

     It had a segmented rotor disc, passing through electromagnets at its
periphery.  The electromagnets were energized from the rotor, and were intended
to boost the EMF.

     By 1952, the first generator had been constructed and was about three feet
in diameter.  It was tested in the open by Searl and a friend.  The armature
was set in motion by a small engine.  The device produced the expected
electrical power, but at an unexpectedly high potential.  At relatively low
armature speeds a potential of the order of 10^5 volts was produced, as
indicated by static effects on nearby objects.

     The really unexpected then occurred. While still speeding up, the
generator lifted and rose to a height of about 50 feet above the ground,
breaking the union between itself and the engine.  Here it stayed for a while,
still speeding up and surrounding itself with a pink glow.  This indicated
ionization of air at a much reduced pressure of about 10^-3 mm Hg.  More
interesting was the side effect, causing local radio receivers to go on by
themselves.  Finally, the whole generator accelerated at a fantastic rate and
is thought to have gone off into space.

     Since that day, Searl and others have made some ten or more small flying
craft, some of which have been similarly lost, and have developed a form of
control.  Larger craft have been built - some 12 feet and two 30 feet in
diameter.

     Once the machine has passed a certain threshold of potential voltage, the
energy output exceeds the input.  The energy output seems to be virtually
limitless.  We made some measurements when I was there, and as far as we could
see, the estimated output is somewhere in the vicinity of 10^13 to 10^15 watts.
Above what appears to be the threshold potential, some 10^13 volts, the
generator and attached parts become inertia-free.  There is also some "matter
snatch" upon acceleration away from the ground, since it tends to take a little
"turf" with it when it goes.

     Analyzing what is happening is fairly easy.  What the generator is doing
is placing a "stress" on the ambient space around it.  The space breaks down to
provide the magnetism to relieve the stress, but the energy by-product is
absorbed by the generator, which reinforces the field.

     It should be noted at this point that only a very small amount of space
fabric passes through the craft and an even smaller amount is converted for
energy.  However, I have noticed that small changes in etheric forces lead to
large physical effects.  It was aptly demonstrated and I was impressed.

     Recently, Mr. Searl had (1987) a brush with authorities, when he began
simply generating his own power for his own house.  Now he doesn't have a very
large house, but the Utility Board didn't like the fact that they had lost
their monopoly.  Now he lives in Birmingham under an assumed name.  Simple, eh?
 _______  __________________________________________________________________
/ _   _ \|Demon Roach Undrgrnd.806/794-4362|Kingdom of Shit.....806/794-1842|
 ((___)) |Cool Beans!..........510/THE-COOL|Polka AE {PW:KILL}..806/794-4362|
 [ x x ] |Ripco................312/528-5020|Moody Loners w/Guns.415/221-8608|
  \   /  |The Works............617/861-8976|Finitopia...........916/673-8412|
  (' ')  |Lunatic Labs.........213/655-0691|ftp - ftp.eff.org in pub/cud/cdc|
   (U)   |==================================================================|
  .ooM   |1993 cDc communications by O.H. Krill                03/01/93-#212|
\_______/|All Rights Drooled Away.                 SIX GLORIOUS YEARS of cDc|


