
                                    _
                                   | \
                                   |  \
                                   | | \
                            __     | |\ \             __
      _____________       _/_/     | | \ \          _/_/     _____________
     |  ___________     _/_/       | |  \ \       _/_/       ___________  |
     | |              _/_/_____    | |   > >    _/_/_____               | |
     | |             /________/    | |  / /    /________/               | |
     | |                           | | / /                              | |
     | |                           | |/ /                               | |
     | |                           | | /                                | |
     | |                           |  /                                 | |
     | |                           |_/                                  | |
     | |                                                                | |
     | |      c   o   m   m   u   n   i   c   a   t   i   o   n   s     | |
     | |________________________________________________________________| |
     |____________________________________________________________________|

  ...presents... CULT OF THE DEAD COW Sought In Obscenity Case
                                                         by Weasel Boy
                                                         and Lizard
                                                         01/01/1996-#302

             __///////\ -cDc- CULT OF THE DEAD COW -cDc- /\\\\\\\__
               \\\\\\\/  Everything You Need Since 1986  \///////
  ___    _   _    ___     _   _    ___       _   _      ___    _   _      ___
 |___heal_the_sick___raise_the_dead___cleanse_the_lepers___cast_out_demons___|

     A friend of mine in Memphis sent me this.  It's a snippet from an article
about a rather famous pornography case there, involving a server in California.
She didn't send me the whole article, just this paragraph.

                                                  -Weasel Boy

     From the _Memphis Daily Herald_, December 16th, 1995:

          Although Memphis prosecutors are indicting the couple on obscenity
          charges, the real problem will not be solved for a long time.
          Officials say that most computers act as a distribution source for
          the material, while the producers of porn often masquerade behind
          fake e-mail addresses.  While the majority of individuals producing
          porn is greater than actual organized efforts, one file of obscene
          material on the computers involved in this case was produced by a
          group calling themselves the "Cult of the Dead Cow."  The file was a
          story involving the torture and degradation of laboratory rabbits and
          was titled "Bunny Lust."  According to one of the prosecutors
          overseeing the case, he became physically ill after reading the
          contents of this file.  Prosecutors say that they are seeking the
          members of this group, but have been relatively stonewalled because
          nobody in the group uses their real name nor can any information be
          found about them.  The "Cult of the Dead Cow" is responsible for over
          300 obscene files on the Internet, containing graphic descriptions of
          abhorrent behavior and obscene photographs.

  _/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/_/

Lizard Speaks Out On Internet Censorship:

     You see, my friend, despite what you have been told, the United States of
America isn't a democracy. The founders of this nation, quite wise men,
realized that the people were more than capable of being utter prats, and thus,
placed many things outside the reach of "many people."  That is what the
Constitution means when it says "Congress shall make no law."  It means no
matter how much the people whine, and beg, and scream, and whine, their elected
representatives DO NOT HAVE THE POWER TO CENSOR.

     The people be damned.

     Everyone in the technology industries is concerned that the Hyde proposal
will make the US non-competitive in international markets, because it will
paralyze Internet service providers who will be forced to filter every single
piece of personal email, every single Web page, and every single post made to
Usenet through their ISP for potentially pornographic material.  Which will
make running an ISP in America impossible.

     Many people feel that the religious right, in their crusade to control the
world around them, do not realize that such strict laws will kill the US as a
member of the Internet community.  They're not as stupid as people think they
are.  They know the situation.  They don't care. They want to rule, period, and
if what they end up ruling is a fourth-rate backwater nation, that won't
matter to them.  Just so long as they are in charge.

     They know about products such as "Surf Watch" which can restrict Internet
access to certain content.  THEY DON'T CARE.  They do not want to protect their
children, they wish to enslave you.  They are not "misguided."  They are not
"poorly informed."  They are not "concerned parents."  *THEY* *ARE* *EVIL*.
And, as they will be the first to tell you, there is no compromise or treaty
with evil.  The censors must be fought, and defeated, *by any means necessary*.
By the ballot box if we can, by the cartridge box if we must.
     .-.                             _   _                             .-.
    /   \           .-.             ((___))             .-.           /   \
   /     \         /   \       .-.  [ x x ]  .-.       /   \         /     \
 -/-------\-------/-----\-----/---\--\   /--/---\-----/-----\-------/-------\-
 /         \     /       \   /     `-(' ')-'     \   /       \     /         \
  WORLDWIDE \   /         `-'         (U)         `-'         \   / WORLDWIDE
             `-'                     .ooM                      `-'     _
      Oooo                                                            / )   __
 /)(\ (   \           Copyright (c)1996 cDc communications.          /  (  /  \
 \__/  )  / All rights reserved.  Award-winning CULT OF THE DEAD COW \   ) \)(/
       (_/     is published by cDc communications, P.O. Box 53011,    oooO  _
  oooO         Lubbock, TX, 79453, US of A.  Edited by Swamp Ratte'.  __   ( \
 /   ) /)(\                                                          /  \  )  \
 \  (  \__/        Save yourself!  Go outside!  Do something!        \)(/ (   /
  \_)                      "THE COW WALKS AMONGST US"                     Oooo

