

            ____________        _____________       _____________
           /                   /            /      /
          /                   /            /      /
         /                   /            /      /
        /_____________      /____________/      /____________
                     /     /      \            /
                    /     /        \          /
                   /     /          \        /
        __________/     /            \      /___________

              S o l a r  R e a l m s  E l i t e
                 The True Story of the Unsung
                            Heroes
                                       ===-- A sequel to 'The Best SRE Game
                                       ===-- Ever Played,' By Josh Renaud



This is the story of many people who played minor roles in the game SRE.
There were many people invloved, but only 3/4 actually played. Even
fewer had major roles in the outcome of the game. But there are the few
who didn't do much, but did change the game, in ways most people never
recognized. There will also be some people who didn't get all the credit
they deserved in the previous story..


         =========------ SRE II  ------=========

There were many Unsung Heroes in this game. Some good, some bad. (It's
arguable which side they represented.. :) The first I can think of off
the top of my head is a fellow named BountyHunter. Yeah, he's been
mentioned before in a major way, but he's one of the most valuable
players in the game. His only job was to infiltrate the workings of
MaceLand. And that  he did, helping the Geneva Alliance bring Mace to a
quick fall. He went on to infiltrate the future Dark Alliance, before
near brushes with utter destruction, which he recovered from.

Next up on my list would be Lloyd's Place. He really never did anything.
I can think of only 1 post by him, and a few attacks. Nothing much. The
key to Lloyd was that he was attacked. Noone within the Alliance
ventured to help him, and as a result, the Dark Alliance thought they
could get away with more raids. If the Alliance had more quickly
retaliated to the attack, the Dark Alliance could have quite possibly
disbanded, thinking they would never mount any attacks without a big
fight coing back at them.

Two other people, who also recieved mention, were Lil Red and Jed's
Solar Empire. These two played pretty major roles, but they recieved
little mention in the story. These two were the 2/3 of the attack squad
on Mace that got planets quick. Eventually, they would go on to be
recognized as major forces, until the Dark Alliance realized most Geneva
fighters were afraid to fight. These two also supplied lots of monetary
aid which was siphoned to many players, and resulted in a quicker end to
the war. They also mounted offensive attacks of their own, without which
the war would have been a loss to the Geneva Alliance.

Hydroxinia is a mystery. When he first came intot he SRE Galaxy, he
joined the Geneva Alliance. But, after not fighting or participating in
Geneva Alliance activities, most people forgot about him, and he became
neutral. Then he claimed to be part of the Dark Alliance, and that move
caused a little fright in the Geneva Alliance, becuase his size was
comprable to that of Lil Red (At the time he jkoined at least.) He never
did more damage than that of the psychological impact on the Geneva
Alliance

BroncoBuster, played a minor role as well. Originally part of a plot
that would have brought certain people into power, the plot fell
through. He was supposed to grow quickly, and amass support from the
Geneva Alliance. Then he would use his new wealth and turn on the
Alliance, hoping to split it down the middle, leaving it open for people
standing aside. This was all before the Dark Alliance, however, and
noone but the people invloved knew about it. But, he couldn't get the
Alliance to support him, and he just became a sitting duck who did
nothing. But soon after the Dark Alliance came about, he had the
opurtunity to infiltrate it. And that he did, providing 2 pieces of VERY
important info. But after that, he became a favorite target of the Dark
Alliance, and as they directed anger at him (He was then just a setup),
the Geneva Alliance built up the armies, and prepared for attack.

Micro Maniac, who appeared late inthe game, was probably the most
wealthy player in the game. The reason I say this, is in which the speed
he joined the Dark Alliance, got money and created a suitable army. He
used it to get lots of wealth, and that he did. He did it so quickly,
that I feel if left unharmed, he would've taken over the game. But the
Geneva Alliance moved in quick, stripping off half of his posessions.

IncrediBite's story is similiar to Micro's, except she was more of a
threat. Getting an army, VERY quickly (and keeping it as well),
IncrediBite became a major military threat that lost very little, and
really wasn't destroyed until the reset.


There were more minor people, but there names escape me. Most are
classified as 'civilian' and belonged to the Geneva Alliance. The
Alliance's job was to protect empires like them, and it wasn't done
effectively until the end of the game. Unfortunately, so many people
played (And were deleted) many people may have had insider roles unknown
to me. I was simply inside the Geneva Alliance, and probably had more
knowledge available to me about the Dark Alliance than anyone else, as
*I* commisioned 3 spies, and got many a reports about it. Keep looking
for more stories about the SRE game, as I have planned 2 more, 1 of
which is strictly about the secrets I, UltraEmpire, never told anyone,t
hat could've devestated the game, if they were followed through. The
second will be a memoirs book, compiled by me, but with quotes from ALL
players..

                     ========--- By: Josh Renaud
