

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
TESTS START FOR LONG DISTACE
" EQUAL ACCESS "  SWITCHING
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
FROM: <S><C><A><N><*><M><A><N>
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 


Well, I'm sure most of you phreaks have
heard many rumors about gaining access
to MCI, SPRINT etc... in the POST
DIVESTITURE age. The most common rumor
is that there will be no access
available after 1986. well, you are
partially correct and have good reason
to worry. While it is true that there
will be an "EQUAL ACCESS" switching
through all available call services
(MCI,SPRINT,etc.) there will still be
the need for extenal access to these
companies as the business man who
travels will need to make calls from
places other than his home fone, so it
will (in my opinion) be neccesary to
leave the dialups open. However you
will have the option to use say sprint
by say picking up you fone and dialing
1+ a/c+number as you will have equal
acces to all long distance venders as
well as AT&T. You will also have the
option of over-riding your vender.

Befor all this gets to complicated let
me show you a reprint of a TELCO
company newsletter that is very
informative... READ IT CAREFULLY. It's
dated:2/1/84

THIS IS ORIGINAL MATERIAL BROUGHT TO
YOU FROM PIRATE-80-SYSTEMS AND

<S><C><A><N><*><M><A><N>


BELL LABS, WESTERN ELECTRIC, AND AT&T
will be testing will be testing long
distance equal access when a NEW
SOFTWARE PACKAGE is cut over in the
SOUTH CHARLESTON (Thats right folks of
all the places in the entire country
and they have to choose CHARLESTON,WV.)
ON FEB, 3 1984.

EQUAL ACCESS MEANS LITERALLY WHAT IT
SAY'S.

ACCORDING TO THE MODIFIED FINAL
JUDGEMENT,equal access will allow ALL
INTEREXCHANGE long distance carriers
the option to choose the same access
AT&T has in connecting to local
exchange offices nationwide.

The SOUTH CHARLESTON cut is being
discribed as the FIRST step toward
nationwaide equal access. WEST VIRGINIA
is conducting the FIRST NATIONAL TRIALS
of the Bell Labs equal access GenericProgram.

The computer memory and the capacity of
the S. Charleston 1A ESS has been
expanded for the tests.the 1A is the
workhourse of the nations switching
machines. It has the capacity of up to
129,000 lines.

Two other WEST VIRGINIA CENTRAL OFFICES
will also be retrofitted for equal
access- the CHARLESTON 1A in MARCH and
the parkersburg #1 ESS in APRIL (this
should be of interest to the local
phreaks).

The Bell Labs technicians conducting
equal access tests will make calls
between WEST VIRGINIA cities and INDIAN
HILL, ILL. to test the software.

Customers will not be involved untile
tests are complete in Sept. 84.  They
will not be effected during the tests

However,when equal access is possible,
they will be able to make long distance
calls with the carrier(vender-mci,etc.)
of their choosing (wouldnt you know I'd
be the first guy in the country to be
stuck with this shit).

The software for the 1A and other
switches will allow local operating
companies such as C&P (Part of Bell
Atlantic) to program into there local
switching machines the customers CHOICE
OF LONG DISTANCE COMPANIES. Every time
the customer dials 1+ and a long
distance number, the appropriate long
distance company can be billed.

The system is designed to allow
customers to "OVERRIDE" THEIR CHOICE OF
LONG DISTANCE providers,if they
desire,by dialing five digits --
1+OXXX.

Today companies either have their own
network or lease WIDE AREA TELEPHONE
service (WATS) lines from AT&T. Their
customers may have to dial up to 21
digits to access the services.

By Sept.1,84,every Bell operating
company must have at least one central
office capable of providing equal
access.

BY Sept.1,85, one third of a companies
subscriber lines must be served by
central offices capable of equal
access.

By Sept.1,86 all central offices must
provide equall acces if a long distance
company (MCI ETC.) places a bona fide
request.

-------------------------------

I MAY BE [garbled text] SHIT BUT
LOOK AT THE BRIGHT SIDE, ALL YOU
PHREAKS WILL KNOW WHATS HAPPENING AS IT
HAPPENS (THE FIRST THING TO CHECK IS TO
SEE IF SPRINT AND MCI CLOSE THEIR LOCAL
DIALUPS AFTER THIS TAKES EFFECT) SO
REMEMBER FOR THE INSIDE ON THE INSIDE
STAY TUNED TO PIRATE-80-SYSTEMS THERE
WILL BE UPDATES AS INFOMATION BECOMES
AVAILABLE. SINCE PIRATE-80 HAS BEEN
INFLICED WITH THIS WE MIGHT AS WELL
LEARN FROM IT SO STAY TUNED.......

<S><C><A><N><*><M><A><N>


