
[Malmsey Habitat v3.á] by Lucifer Messiah -- ANARKICK SYSTEMS

Released:  Jan 20, 1993

This is a resident COM and EXE infector.  The virus goes through extensive
measures to ensure that it won't be debugged.  The technology I used has never
been used in another virus except Malmsey ][b, although it will probably
appear in most of my future viruses.

The encryption is basic as hell because I didn't feel like wasting time and
energy on it.  I had a better one on it before, but opted for fewer bytes.  I
don't see much worth in going too far with the encryption engine, as they are
all easy to crack anyhow.  My virus, however, will not be so easy.  I suppose
you could do it byte by byte, by hand if you really wanted to know what I was
up to.

There is a 1/30 chance that the virus will "go off" when the virus goes
resident.  I have omitted the face routine that appeared in versions I, ][,
and ][b, not because of the virus length, but because it was becomming a
hassle trying to get the text and certain parts of the face to print out
properly.  If I get that problem fixed, I will release a full version of
Malmsey Habitat v3.0.  

This virus is not scannable up to SCAN v99.  I haven't yet had a chance to
try v100.

In the making right now is Malmsey Habitat IV.  Like version ]I[, It is going
to be using a technology that isn't used anywhere else. Your worst enemy will
be McFly's CLEAN, and other similar products.  I have found a way to make
CLEAN more dangerous than the virus itself!  You will be pleased.

Look forward to that, and another which will be out in a few months, called
HAL-9000.  In principal it is like the DIR ][ virus in that it infects the
FAT and Directory, but HAL-9000 is totally different, and won't lock up under
DOS 5 like DIR ][ does.



                           Lucifer Messiah -- ANARKICK SYSTEMS

