


           */*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*
               Hacking Answering Machines 1990
           */*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*/*
         by: Predat0r of Blitzkrieg Bbs 502/499-8933


    AT&T reports that in the year 1990, 11 million people
will buy an answering machine for their home use. In 1989, 10
million machines were sold. Everyone has called up a person
at one time or another and got the old "leave your name at
the beep" message. With this increase in homes using these
machines there is also a new form of hacking developing. One
of hacking an answering machine.

    Why would anyone even want to hack an answering machine
and for what purpose? There are many reasons and things you
can do once you have control of someone elses machine. If for
some reason you need to spy on a business or person you can
hack their machine and take control using the information for
your own personal use. There is also the old "change the
message" secret to make it say something to the effect of
this line accepts all toll charges so you can bill third
party calls to that number. You can also use an answering
machine for your own personal use, as in making it your own
voice mail type system for people to call. Only do this if
you know someone is out of town. If they come home from
shopping and find their machine changed it might cause
problems. With these basic ideas in mind you can see hacking
an answering machine could be very useful to certain
individuals.

    How can a person hack an answering machine? Well most
answering machines built now have remote access features
which allow the owner, or anyone to call in and press a
security code to play their messages. This is where the fun
begins.  Some older models don't have remote access so you
cannot do anything to them. Also if you know someone has a
machine but you call and it doesn't answer, let the phone
ring about 15 times. This will tell the machine to turn
itself on, so you can hack it. The actual number varies
between machines.

    To practice hacking some machines i will show you how to
get remote access on a few models. Just look and see what
kind your friend has and hack it for starters.

    Record a Call- Model 2120
    -------------------------
Call in and during the message or after the beep tone to
leave a message enter the 3 digit security code. Which you
must find yourself. This will rewind the tape and play all
new messages. Press 2 to backspace and repeat the last
message. Press 3 to fast foward the tape.

Changing your message from remote. Call your phone and enter
the secret code. After several rapid beeps enter your secret
code again. After a short delay you will hear a long tone.
After the tone ends begin speaking your message which may be
17 seconds in length. When finished press the second digit of
your secret code to end. The machine will then save your
message and play it back. To turn the unit on from remote let
it ring 11 times then hangup. Or stay on and it will answer
so you can access the machine. For express calls or frequent
calls hit the second digit for two seconds to skip the out
going message announcement.

Goldstar- Models 6000/6100
--------------------------
Call and enter your 1 digit secret code after you hear the
out going message announcement. The machine will then play
back new messages. Hangup to save messages or after all
messages have been played the machine will give a double
beeptone, you may enter your code to erase all messages.
You cannot change the out going message on this unit.

Cobra- Model AN-8521
--------------------
For this machine there are 2 codes. Both are one digit in
length. The first one is the play code. The second is to
erase messages from remote. After the outgoing message and
beeptone press the play code for 2 seconds to play messages.
After each message ends there will be a single beep. At the
end of all message it will beep twice. You may then do the
following. Replay by pressing the play code again. Erase
messages by pressing the erase code. Hang-up and save
messages and continue to take additional calls. To turn this
unit on from remote you must let it ring 16 times before it
will activate. If it rings 10 times then you hear 3 beeps it
is full and messages need to be erased.

Uniden- Model AM 464
--------------------
This model is one of the more advanced when it comes to
remote capabilities. The factory preset security code is 747.
This can be changed to as many as five digits of your choice.
To gain access from remote type your security code while the
outgoing message is playing. Press 1 after hearing the tone
and the machine will rewind and play your messages. To fast
foward press 7, to resume normal playback press 8. To stop
the messages from playing press 8 again. Press 8 to restart
the messages or 1 to start from the beginning again. Press 9
to rewind and 8 to resume playing. If you rewind all the way
it will beep twice. You need to press 1 to play messages.To
save messages press 4. To erase press 6. To turn the machine
off from remote press 5 after all messages have been played
and the machine beeps twice. To turn the machine on from
remote let the phone ring 12 to 14 times. The machine will
beep and then you enter your remote code. This will then turn
your machine to answer mode. This machine also has room
monitor options. This allows you to listen to what is going
on in the room of the machine. To do this call the machine
enter your security code after the beep press 0. The monitor
stays on for 60 seconds. You will be warned with 2 beeps at
45 seconds. To continue press 0 again.To change the outgoing
message from remote erase all the messages. Then call back
and enter your code after the tone press 3. It will beep
again and  you may then leave your new message. Press 3 when
finished. To change the security code from remote after the
beep press # then 1 after the next beep enter your new code
followed by the # again. There is also a call break through
where you enter 256 while the outgoing message is playing.
This will alarm the persons in the house someone is calling
with a series of loud beeps. Press the * key to stop.

Code-a-phone Model 930
----------------------
To access from remote call and enter your security code after
the announcement and tone. Press your code for 3 full
seconds. After the new messages have been played you will
hear 2 tones. You may then save messages by pressing your
code then hanging up. repeat by entering code wait for 4
tones then enter code again. To erase message hangup when the
tape is done playing. To turn the machine on from remote call
and let ring ten times. When the system answers it will have
a two second tone. Press your security code. You will hear
three double tones to let you know the system is on.

Unisonic- Model 8720
--------------------
One digit code entered after the outgoing message and tone
will allow you to hear messages. To change message wait till
all new messages have been played 2 beep tones will be heard.
Press code for four seconds. Two beeps will be heard then the
tape will rewind and beep again. Now leave the new message.
Press your code when finished to save new outgoing message.
New message will play for you to hear.

Panasonic- Model KX-T2427
-------------------------
Call and enter the three digit code during the outgoing
message. Machine will beep once, then beep amount of times
equal to messages. Then rewind and play messages. There will
be three beeps after the last message. Six beeps means the
tape is full. Press 2 to foward. Press 1 to rewind. Press 3
to reset machine and erase messages. To monitor the room
press 5 after the beeps indicating the number of messages the
machine has. Press 7 to change the outgoing message, it will
beep a few quick times rewind then a long beep will be heard.
Leave new message press 9 when finished. Press 0 right after
the beep tones to shut the machine off. To turn the machine
on let it ring 15 times then hangup after machine turns on.

Panasonic- Model KX-T2385d
--------------------------
During the outgoing message enter the 1 digit code. This will
playback messages. Press the code again to rewind. After the
messages have played the machine will beep three times. Press
your code again and it will reset the machine. For remote
turn on let phone ring 15 times. Then after the outgoing
message hangup.

AT&T- Model 1504
----------------
Enter 2 digit code before or after announcement. System will
beep after each message and five times when messages are
done. Press the # key anytime to pause. Hanging up will save
messages. Press 7 and it will rewind and play messages again.
Press 5 to fast foward. Press 2 to rewind. Press 33 after all
messages have been played to reset without saving messages.
To record onto the tape press * after the system answers.
This will then beep and you may leave a four minute message
on the tape. Press # when done. This is not an outgoing
message announcement, only a memo. To turn on from remote let
ring ten times press 0 when system answers. To turn the
system off dial and enter your code. Press 88 and it will
shut the machine down.

Phonemate- Model 4050
---------------------
Enter your 3 digit code during the outgoing message. Pressing
* or # will allow you to scan through the messages. When
finished pressing 1 will replay the messages. Pressing 2 will
erase them. To turn on from remote let ring for 15 times.
Then proceed with remote operations.

Phonemate- Model 7200
---------------------
Enter 1 digit code during of after the outgoing message. A
voice will tell you how many messages you have, then play
them back for you. To rewind press your code and hold it for
however long you want to rewind. Let go and it will resume
playing. After the last message a voice will prompt you with
a list of options. You have five seconds to respond or it
will proceed to the next option. These are as follows. The
first is hanging up to save messages. Next is enter code to
replay messages. Next enter code to erase messages. Last is
enter code to change greeting. Follow the voice and it will
give you complete directions on exact steps to follow. To
turn on from remote let ring ten times then hang up. If tape
is full it will say sorry tape is full, enter code and erase
messages.

Spectra Phone- Model ITD300
---------------------------
Enter your 1 digit code after the greeting. Messages will
play back. Hanging up will save them. Or wait for four beeps
and press your code to replay them. To erase press your code
after 2 beeps. To turn the machine on from remote let it ring
10 times.

Notes: Outgoing message and greeting is what you hear when
you first call. Code is your personal security code.

Hacking answering machines can be very easy. It can also help
you obtain valuable information. If you have a targeted
machine you can try going to a store and saying you just
bought one and it didn't have instructions in the box. They
will usually give you a set or make copies for you. This
basic guide is just to introduce you to answering machine
hacking and changing the outgoing message and listening to
messages left by callers. To keep your own machine safe
purchase one with a changeable security code of 3 or more
digits. Most home machines are of the 1 digit type and are
easy to hack. I have no knwoledge of the laws concerning
hacking into someones answering machine. I am sure once it
becomes more common we will find out. Of course this article
is for informational purposes only so you would never have to
find out the actual laws.

Taken from TAP Magazine Issue #100



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne d'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Tom Joseph           408-747-0778

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

