			  (%) GETTING BUSTED (%)
		    (%) an experience and a warning (%)

		       ^^  By  Paranoid Punkpig  ^^
			--- Resident (415) Bum ---


I'm sure most of you have done some kinds of illegal activity, and betcha
might've gotten arrested..  Lemmie tell ya, getting arrested is no joke:
you're parents get notified, and they are told of the activity you were doing
(in my case, fucking around with fire in a condemed building).	You also get a
record (you go on file down at the nearest police station, and you might get
kicked out of school..	First lemmie lay it all out for ya:

It was a Friday night, and it was just after a school dance, and, as usual, i
was disappointed as hell (i go to a pretty tame school).  Me and a friend
decided to, rather than hang around with a bucha people, go investigate this
old shopping mall that was being torn down by school..	we had both been by
there many times, but had never considered entering the damn thing..  what a
mistake that was!  First off, it was dark, and we didn't have a flashlight
(duhh...  who carries a flashlight with them?!), anywaze, so we had to use
newspaper, and light it...  THAT was the first mistake, cuz there was so much
smoke, some fucking rent-a-cop saw it pouring out of the building, and thought
it was a fuckin' fire!!  So, there we were, not knowing that outside, there
were about a dozen cops, about to enter the building..	We were having the time
of our lives, fucking around:  going around in an abandoned shopping mall can
be cool, try it!!  Finally, after about an hour, the smoke started gettin' to
us, and we decided to leave...	anywayze, it was past 1:00 and this was when i
didn't and couldn't drive, so i needed to walk home (another hour)..  we then
proceeded to leave when we heard the cops opening the exit door (the ONLY exit
door!!)...  at the time, we were right by the door, kinda behind it, so that
they didn't know that we were there..  We put the "torches" out fast as hell,
but still, there were some cinders, and, the cops spotted it, and us...

Then, they shined their flashlights in our faces, and started sayin' stuff
like:  "Whatcha doin' here, punks?" "What're ya doin with fire, you fuckin'
assholes?!" etc..  Oh yeah, they asked our ages, and we said 11..  that was
cool as hell, cuz they relaxed then, cuz they didn't think that 11 year olds
would try anything...  (keep that in mind..  if you get busted, then act
scared, as if you wouldn't do anythnig, and the cops will *RELAX*)..  they then
did the old feel routine, where they see if you have any guns, knives, etc.  on
you...	They didn't check us out very thoroughly, tho, cuz my friend had a
knife in his denim, which the cops didn't find.  They took us outside, to the
"meter-maid-mobile" (you know, the little three wheelers that meter maids use),
and were about to cuff us..  (yeah, at age 13!!) anywaze, that's when my friend
said, "R-U-N-!", at which point we both jammed!!  shit, i ran so fast, you
wouldn't believe it!  the cops yelled something like "stop, or we'll shoot",
but that's a buncha shit, cuz we were just kids...  cops cant shoot people
unless they pose a threat to the cop...  we ran, and ran, and ran and ran....
and we made it home ok without getting busted by the cops, BUT!  somehow, they
got a look at us, and about 2 weeks later, the same cops (we were walkin' by
school again), saw us, and recognized us...  they brought us
in..............but dat's another story...



		     (^) Paranoid - Punkpig (^)


-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Call MARIN-80 :: 40 MEGS d/l (Pirate, hacking, public) :: Apple II's
  IBM :: Commodore's :: Atari's :: *San Francisco's* one and only!!
		       (%)  (415) 479-7218  (%)
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne d'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Tom Joseph           408-747-0778

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
