                            __    _________           
      _____________       _/_/'  <_  /----/'      _/^\    _______________
     |  ___________     _/_/'     `\_`\_        _/_/\_`\  _____________  |
     | |              _/_/_____     `\_ \__   _/ /___| |'              | |
     | |             /________/'      `\__/' /_/-----, |               | |
     | |                                     `       | |               | |
     | |                                             `\|               | |
     | |                                               `               | |
     | |     c   o   m   m   u   n   i   c   a   t   i   o   n   s     | |
     | |                                                               | |
     | |                                                               | |
     | |        -~serving Bell Security faithfully since 1993~-        | |
     | |_______________________________________________________________| |
     |___________________________________________________________________|

                 _-~Zen and the Art of Untraceable Hacking~-_
                  -----------------by fLoOd-----------------

        So...tired of sweating over your keyboard...your breath coming in 
short, pained gasps...your calloused, hacker's finger's hovering alertly over
your <Alt>-H macro?  Well...phear no more.  Many stress-related diseases can
be prevented in later life by taking a deep breath, centering your mind, and
Becoming One With The Modem.
        
        This phreaking security measure is quite simple, if done correctly
and (hardest of all) inconspicuously.  The hacker's greatest fear is getting
caught...getting all their dastardly deeds traced back to their number, and
recieving a knock on the door from the Gestapo, or the Feds, or an old ex-
girlfriend who's really pissed off that you left her in an well-lit coffee
shop in Midtown Atlanta for a black-haired waitress.
        
        Many remedies have been constructed for this problem, mainly by
hacking organizations, independent phreakers, and waitresses with black hair
who serve coffee and don't wear underwear.  The Beige Box concept appeared a
while ago, in which a phreaker can make calls under the protection of other
people's fone numbers.  This would be nice for hackers, except the fact that
you would have people picking up the fone to call their ex-girlfriends and 
apologize while you were on-line with Wachovia moving people's money around.
So...us brainy guys and our waitress friends down at the LCA came up with a 
security measure that benefits both hackers and phreakers.
        
        The pull-off is a little hairy, but once your hacking base is
established, you can have phun all you want.  This is the scam: In order to
fully protect yourself from any call-trace method, find a secluded pay fone.
It must be _really_ out-of-the-way.  A laptop computer would be handy, if you 
plan to do any hacking, or your handy Beige Box if you're a phreakin' typa 
guy.  Now...a thing or two about pay fones.  If you ever look at the back of 
one, you'll notice a large metal tube connecting either to a) the ground, or 
b) a telephone pole or line.  Now all you phreakers know about your friends, 
the red and green wires.  Well, guess what this thin metal casing is hiding 
from you?  So use your hacksaw that you brought just for this purpose, and 
saw it on open.  Phreakers, you can pick it up from here.
        
        Take the red and green wires from inside, and cut them.  Expose the
inner metal of the wire, and (Beige Boxers) attach the alligator clips to them
following the Ring - Red - Right pattern.  Hackers, your job is only slightly
more complex.
        
        Take the fone cord protruding from your laptop's modem, and cut it.
As above, expose the inner metal of the wires, and attach them via alligator
clips to the pay fone wires that you cut in the above paragraph.  And there

you have it.
  __________   ______________________________________________________________ 
 /    ___   \-/                                                              \
|  ,-|__ \,  |  If you have the unquenchable craving for more phat t-files,  |
|  |\,__'\|  | phreaking updates, and hacker's professional advice, call the |
|  `\___|-'  |  LCa Headquarters, the Starving Artist, at 91o.722.o514!      |
 \__________/-\______________________________________________________________/

