------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         
                                       ммппппллллм
                                 м   мп  eptппллпллм
                               млллм п ncмлллол   ллм
                              лплллнў o ллп о помлллл
                             п  олл њcмнллм  мл п  олн
                          п     ллллллллмоллллн   млл
                      ў       млпппп м     пппммлллп
                њ           пп        ппллллллпп
             њ     ў   п               
                          дemon<urry/Еlliance ФФФФ----њњњњ
 

---f---u----c---k-----t---h--------e------g--e------s---t-a-----p----o-------!


        So...beige boxing.  Good concept, easy connection, all the free calls
you want...with one exception.  You have to sneak up right next to someone's
house and/or business, and connect.  Following one of the fundamental concepts
of the universe, a person's phone box will _always_ be either right under a 
window, right next to a back door, or in a generally obvious position.  So 
what's a young phrack to do?  Well...I'll tell you.
        This technique is local to Winston...most downloadable phrack texts
are written by phreakers way off in some big city with a larger population of
stupid telefone company employees.  So, to get down and funky on the local
scene, there is a much easier, less risky, more convenient, and less hairy way
of beige boxing using personal phone boxes.
        Ever see those little rounded rectangular boxes on the side of the 
street w/that stupid little Bell logo on an orange background, that say 
something to the effect of, 'Don't dig here, or your room will become
infested with African Cohola Monkeys, your cat will start saying "Bo!", and 
all the paint will peel off your house.'  Well, don't dig there.  Just look
at the point at which the box meets the ground, and you will see a small latch
(it doesn't even require tools to unlatch).  Just pull outwards and lift up,
and the front cover should slide towards you.  You might wish to pull down on
this cover piece, and remove it, in order to create more room to work with.
        If you look on the inside, you should see something like this...
                   
   ()----------.   Slightly slanted rows of screws, at least one of which
      ()-------|   has both terminals connected to a wire that makes its
   ()          |   getaway through the bottom of the box.  (This is what you
      ()       |   want to avoid digging into)

        So...your job now is to take your handy test fone/space weenie/beige
box/weasel stomper/lineman's handset, and connect the two alligator clips to
the top row of terminals.  The green wire should connect on the left, and the
red on the right (in most cases).  This connection is equivalent to connecting
your test fone to the box sitting on the outside of their house, with one
exception...the majority of these cute, furry little gray boxes have more than
one house's fone lines in them.  Usually, each row of terminals is a seperate
fone line, although this varies depending on the customer's connection.
        And now, you are an extension on somebody's line, with none of the
sweat, pain, blood, or mental scarring that are caused by sneaking into your
neighbors yard and directly jacking into their box.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This has been a FUNKY COHOLA BEAVIS, brought to you by those little dears at
  _   ___   __ ============----------- the LCA.  All research for this file
 / | / _ \  \ \ ============----------- was conducted by i42, and distributed
 \ || / \/  /  \ ============----------- through the LCA.  To get your hands 
  [|| \____/ /\ \ ============----------- on some more phat rhymes, call...
 / |_\_____| [_\ \ ============----------- The Starving Artist - 91o.722.o514
 |_________| ____ \ ============----------- (c) 1994 LCA 
-----------\/----\_\----------------------------------------------------------

