>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

                     SWEDISH HACKERS ASSOCIATION PRESENTS
                     1990      THE 3rd PROTOCOL      1990

                           EDITORS : LIXOM BAH
                                   : MR BIG
                                   : PHEARLESS
                                   : THE CHIEF

                  ALL TEXTS IN THIS REPORT IS CONTRIBUTIONS
                            BY ORIGINAL MEMBERS!
                THANX TO EVERYONE'S CO-OPERATION AND SUPPORT
                 THIS PUBLIC DOCUMENT IS NOW IN YOUR HAND.

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

               INTERNATIONAL HACKERS ASSOCIATION'S HEADQUARTERS

                    ##-###-#####     TOUCHDOWN BBS  (SW)
                    ##- #-######     INTERPOL II    (SW)
                    ##- #-######     PROJECT ATHENA (SW)

    (ED'S NOTE: No telephone numbers are included in the PUBLIC VOLUMES)

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
-INDEX-
                  EDITORS INTRODUCTIONS......... 01

                        Editor's Page #1........ 02
                        Editor's Page #2........ 03
                        Editor's Page #3........ 04
                        Editor's Page #4........ 05

                  Hacking Rules & Advice........ 06
                  Cray & IBM In Sweden.......... 07
                  S.H.A. Member Busted.......... 08
                  Unix Security................. 09
                  Are you a Homocidal Maniac?... 10
                  Brittish Hackers Blackmail.... 11
                  The New HQ.................... 12
                  University Hit By Hackers..... 13
                  New Hackergroup Busted........ 14
                  New NETwork Soon Here......... 15
                  Telco Traces Calls............ 16
                  Terrorists Handbook found..... 17
                  New Wave Of Computer Coups.... 18
                  Datema-Company Sold........... 19
                  S.H.A. Visited ESA Computer +. 20
                  How To Keep On Hacking........ 21
                  Storytime! 'The BIG system'... 22
                  Editor's Final Notes.......... 23

                  How to contact S.H.A.......... 24
                  Credits and THE END........... 25

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -1-

                         ()()()()()()()()()()()()()
                        ()()  INTRODUCTION 1991 ()()
                         ()()()()()()()()()()()()()

   Welcome to another  interesting and stunning protocol from S.H.A. -  The
leaders of  True  Hacking in Sweden today!  The Only True Organization that
keeps the old  and genuine way of hacking. We have collected the finest and
best writers for  this issue,  and have some nice and special views,  tips,
reports,  stories and jokes  for you,  the reader.  This is the Only Series
that is released to the general public, which  means that nothing is signed
under real  names or handles and that no direct phonenumbers are published,
though for those who consider themselves hackers, we have a modem 'mailbox'
where you can contact us (see the end of the file).

   By keeping a steady contact with our friends in the United States in the
'scene' we have learned and experienced a lot, been there when the busts of
the FBI Operation SunDevil raged trough the underground world, watched BBSs
go down,  and come up again (if lucky). We have seen a new and very special
bulletin board system where Feds  and Hackers can discuss and change views,
as well as share their own thoughts about their hobby, classified 'illegal'
by the counterpart.  We have seen the 'carding' scene vanish through tough
and sometimes cruel work by the feds, and as an effect of this, the hacker
scene  suffer as well.  If you called underground  boards in  The States a
couple of years ago, and went back today, you would be in a state of shock.
You won't find a genuine HACKER ONLY underground board anywhere! They have
Sports, Tv reviews, Music, Classifieds, Religion, Politics, Ads, Technique
and this  goes on and on and on until at last,  if you're lucky one or two
small and unused hacker subs.  You start to scan through the sub,  only to
find that  the  last  message was written  about  two to five  months ago,
regarding anything  but  hacking.  This  is  truly a sad development 'over
there' because  when  we  here in  Europe are breaking  new  barriers  and
stretching out to the 'big country in the west', we can't find people with
similar interests who are active, or seem to be active anymore.

   I guess this is how it really is today,  but we all know that Hackers
are reluctant to make  'new' friends,  or admitting that they really Are
hackers, which is the correct way for a hacker, but in my last two years
in the  underground scene in America, I thought I would finally see some
people 'lighten up' and talk to me about hacking and it's effects, but I
am now ready to give up, because I haven't seen nothing yet!
 
   Well, that's my point of view from the American Underground today, let's
go on now with this issue of THE 3rd PROTOCOL. As I said, we have all kinds
of stories, tips and treats for you,  so just relax,  get a nice cold coke,
switch on  MTV with Yo! MTV Raps & Fab Five Freddie  and read this cooooold
chillin' issue. PEACE!


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -2-

                              PAST AND PRESENT

  The year that have  passed have been  very critical in many ways.  We have
tried to get more  serious members  by tough advertisments  and by keeping a
low profile without  any results. We are open  to new members, but they have
to be serious, and have to follow some kind of rules, what you can, and what
you can't do I mean.  Such persons are  hard to find in Sweden today, let me
tell you.  It seems like those  who already  are members  are the  only ones
left in this country.  It is a sad statement, but until we find new members,
that is the truth.  I would personally like to see a more qualified bunch of
people who enjoy  and respect the  world  of hacking, who see the excitement
and the pleasure of bending that 'door' and look into the world of computers
and systems whithout  having to break and  trash them and going to a genuine
state  of  illegalities.  I don't find  Hacking a criminal act as long  as I
don't trash, crash,  take or alter files and programs on the systems I hack.
It is a sport in a way, and a search  for knowledge in  another and the only
competition I have is the people who have made the security on those systems.

  I don't respect people who don't know what they're  doing when hacking and
the  same  goes  for  people  who  crash  systems  and still call themselves
'hackers'.

 I don't  respect  newspapers  or  journalists, who add the word 'hacker' to
every goddamn  headline when talking  about  something else as long as it is
about computers and crooks, just to make the whole article more interesting.
Another sad statement here is that they jyst don't know what they're talking
about. They have no education in computers or areas close to computers.  The
only education  they have  is a journalistic one,  and that's  not enough it
seems.
 
  The other critical area, is the more illegal  branch  of  the  underground
computer  world.  You probably have heard the word 'carding' before, but not
in the way someone within the underground have  or have experienced.  One of
our members got caught this year because of carding.  That person just broke
the limits and overdid it.  If  someone tries  to  make you 'card' something
or tries to teach you how to do it;  Don't!  I don't recommend carding to my
worst  enemy  even.  It  is  too risky and too illegal to get involved into.
Although  Sweden is far behind the  Big  Hacker Country in the west, both in
ordinary Hacking and Carding, we have the same laws when it comes to Carding.
The law is  very  strict  here, and  will never  look the other way in these
matters.  If you followed another  case about a year ago, you read that they
got a  very generous  sentence;  just  small fines, and  all of  them didn't
make it  that far even!  One of them  went out of there  without any charges
at all. Just don't  think that You  will get away that easy  these days. The
Police and the swedish FBI (SAPO) are  tougher and the creditcard  companies
are  changing their  security,  allowing  the  companies  who recieve orders
to check almost  everything.  The Customs are close  to the  Police and will
not  accept  a 2 by 2  meter large package go through with a 'worth 500 SEK'
stamp  on it without  checking  the  sender, the  reciever  and  the package
closely.  And the  swedish  VAT (MOMS) is  now  at 25% which makes the price
You  pay on  arrival  very high  (if you  make it that far). Now  those  who
are into  this  kind of  thing says  'That's easy!  Just order it by FEDERAL
EXPRESS and  everything goes  on the creditcard!', that is true, I don't say
that  it  doesn't, but the  companies  that  use FEDERAL EXPRESS seem  to be
larger, have  more  money to  check  all  creditcard  orders,  and  have the
power and money to contact  the Federal Bureau of Investigations who contact
their  collegues in the country the  order  was placed, and follow the whole
thing trough.  They have money,  time  and enough  background  to prosecute.
The final word here is just; Whatever you do, Don't! It's not worth it!


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -3-

                                DIFFICULTIES

   It IS difficult to find experienced hackers! This is the truth. We have
tried to find these persons by  1) Letting them come to us, and  2) Go out
advertising on  public boards  (This could be discussed being a smart move
or not).

   None of them have  resulted in more members in the SHA,  only that more
Novices  (With a capital 'N')  have  contacted  us.  This may not sound as
serious as it is!  Hackers Must go  together  with  their  experiences and
knowledge to hack the most  heavily guarded and secure systems.  This will
be the only way to even have a chance to beat future systems.

   Also,  a big group of  hackers  who  'Know What They Are Talking About'
manages to come up  with more ideas, and of course,  more  contributors to
informative textfiles like this one.

  Another thing is also that more hackers can collect more new happenings,
because it's  (still)  happening very  much on the  computer/modem  scene,
and it  takes a lot of people  to keep up with  the  computer systems fast
developments.


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -4-
 
                            NEW AND CLASSIC NEWS
   WATCH OUT!
   ==========

   5 years in prison, that's what could  happen to hackers in Great Britain
   nowadays.  A new law  have been introduced that will  make it much  more
   dangerous to hack computersystems, but since almost every other european
   country already have this law, I think it will make no difference in ac-
   tivity from our great friends.

   The law says that if you enter a system in an illegal way, you could get
   6 months in jail, or fines up to $4000 but if you enter the same system,
   but only with DESTRUCTION in your mind, you could be punished with up to
   5 years in jail.
   

   UNIVERSITY HACKERS CHARGED
   ==========================
   1990 February
 
   Two  youngsters have been  arrested for illegal  use of a  computer at a
   Swedish university. Last winter they made a successful hack and searched
   for  information about  grades and  tentamen-results.  Both hackers risk
   fines, and they have to pay the university $1500 in damage costs.
 
   - I didn't  think the  school had so much to  learn me,  said one of the
     students.
   
   Instead he  hacked  his way into the administrative computer system. But
   due to a mistake from his side, the school-staff was warned and they un-
   derstood that a unauthorised user had been in their system. The same ev-
   ening, one of the system operators started his hunt for the hacker.

   After a while the  hacker was traced to one of the computer rooms at the
   university.  The operator was quite sure  he had found the right person,
   but he had no evidence. When one of the hacker's friend called the univ-
   ersity from the outside, the call was traced, and the game was over.


   American Hackers are developing a chinese VIRUS!
   ================================================
  
   Some months  ago I read an a newspaper,  and  suddenly I saw an  article 
   about  communism, and  above  the  text,  there  was a  picture of  some
   youngsters  sitting by their computers.  Interested as I was,  I started
   reading.  

   I read  that some American hackers had plans to  construct a virus, that
   should be spread on the nets in  China.  The virus was  supposed to be a
   destructive one, it was going to erase all data it came in contact with,
   and write

   LI PENG SUCKS! (That's the prime-minister in China)


 
   SIX PERSONS SUSPECTED FOR FELONY COMPUTER CRIME
   ===============================================
   Six hackers between  18 and  20 years old,  are suspected  for extensive
   computer swindle at the Swedish University in Linkoping. They had hacked
   the password to the universitys databank, and caused damage for at least
   $13000.  The persons at the university  got suspicious  when  they got a
   phonebill on $15000 HIGHER then the normal, and called the police.
 
   Trial is waiting.


   GERMAN HACKERS CONVICTED FOR ESPIONAGE

   The first hackertrial in German history started in February-90. Three
   hackers got  conditional sentences, because they had had entered some 
   military systems and then sold the information to the KGB. 

   The court in  Celle outside  Hannover,  found all three guilty to the
   crime. The both hackers Markus Hess and  Dirk Brzenzinski  had hacked
   their way in into both military  and  commercial nets in USA,  Europe
   and the Orient.  The  affair gave them $60000.  The third man,  Peter
   Carl, who worked as a croupier at a casino,  where supposed to act as
   the  contactman.  He went to Berlin,  where he  passed the disks with
   information to the KGB.

   Earlier there was also a 4th prsecuted, but he took his life in 1989.
   An  American programmer reacted  when a bill came to an  account that
   didn't exist.  The  programmer suspected hackers,  and spent one year
   on an investigation. And after that, he got them on the hook.
   (The bill was on 80 cents.....)


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -5-

                                  HACKERS...

One word that the media have made an ugly word. The media view of hackers
is that they only want to steal information  and  destroy  information if
they can. More or less, they work for the KGB.

What could be more  wrong?  Hackers are people who are only interested in
penetrating  secure  systems.  Of course  there  are  always  people that
might destroy information, but  they are often  people  who  are  novices
when it  comes to real  hacking and don't know much about it.  Why should
anyone want to destroy information just to be discovered  and kicked out,
if they want to use the CPU?

Unless the media start to write about how it really is, I think that they
more or less will influense  young novice hackers that they should behave
like that, and then we will have a  dissaster when these people learn how
to get access to systems.

And because of this bad  publicity the  police are spending more money on
trying to trace down hackers who only want to learn more.

I think we few  real hackers have a hard time before us.  Our golden days
were a couple a years ago.


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -6-

                         HACKER RULES AND ADVICES
            a fast guide to make LESS mistakes when IT happens.


   * If you get to a  system  you don't  recognize  at all, store as much
     text you can, WITHOUT LOGGING ON and ask someone who you think knows
     more about it.
     Note: Ofcourse,  you  don't give anyone  who knows less than you the
           number.
  
   * A Hacker is always  trying to  get as much access as possible on the
     systems s/he have hacked into.

   * Remember,  a  number  to a  system that you've found on a public BBS
     could be a trap just to bust someone like YOU.

   * To create new accounts:
      - Never do this when there's top 30 users.
      - Let the new user's name be in the middle
        or maybe in the end of the user list. (Mostly alphabetical)
      - Avoid creating a new user by refreshing an old, dis-used
        username, (like: Last login 21-JAN-1987)

   * If you  note  a  new  command or a  new instruction, store all text
     available  from  help  menues and  similar, and ask someone who you
     think knows more.

   * If a  system  you  use  to call has been modified or maybe updated,
     store text and ask somebody.

   * If you are planning to do something on a system you NEVER have done
     before,  and you're not sure  about Everything about it... Don't do
     it. ASK someone more experienced to get further advices.

   * Remember: The bigger  company,  the  bigger the chance is that they

      - trace calls with 'odd' behaviour
      - have unique security-systems and routines
      - have a lot of active users

   * MOST systems stores ALL faults and errors you cause (typing fault,
     access violations). So if you don't know what you're doing by
     100%, don't do it.

   * Never even START hack a system you don't know how to handle in some
     way. The only exception is systems who doesn't introduce themselves.

   * When you've hacked into a system, do the following IMMEDIATELY
      1) Open your capture/buffert for incomming text
      2) List the logged in users

         ALWAYS LOG OFF IF...
             a) ... any kind of System Operator is logged on.
                Note: On some systems, the System Operator's console is
                      always logged on to the system.
             b) ... there's any kind of Project Manager logged on.
             c) ... another user with 'your' name is logged on.

         GO ON IF...
             a) ... you seem to be alone, or only normal users are logged on.

      3) If you have system privilegies, try to shut off (Not DELETE!)
         the (if any) system logs.

      4) Capture EVERYTHING in the help menues or similar. IMPORTANT!

      5) Try to list all available directories (or all directory names,
         if nothing else is possible), no matter how many they seem to be.

      6) Get as many other usernames as possible.

      REMEMBER:
        a) Never send letters or phone any other users through the system,
           before you have EVERYTHING under control.
           One exception though, when you are trying to 'fool' some users
           to give them more usernames or/and passwords for projects etc.

   * If you get in on a user and you of some reasons know that you WONT
     get back in again ('forgot' the password, got 'thrown in'),
     follow the whole "When you've hacked into a system..." EXCEPT the
     ALWAYS LOG OFF IF... at 2).


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -7-

                              [SUPERCOMPUTERS]

               [CRAY X-MP/48]  [IBM 3090-600J/VF]  [ETA10] 

   Sweden have these  computers (which I guess you might recognise). Two of
them  are  in use, and  the third (ETA10) is now taken out of service to be
shipped  back to the  United States, and as a hacker, you realise the power
and the pleasure of hacking one of them. Therefor I've written a little bit
of information for you to drool on.

                           -=* COSTS & PRICES *=-

   Well, this is a  matter  of  HUGE  amounts  of money we talk about here.
SE-Banken (a bank here in Sweden)  and Wallenbergsstiftelsen  financed  the
Cray  X-MP/48  with  an  amount  of 59 Million  Swedish  Crowns  (about US$
10.000.000 (US$ at 5.80 SEK) and the IBM 3090-600J/VF was paid with donated
money  (no information from whom).  The price?  A small  sum of 150 Million
Swedish Crowns (about US$ 26.000.000). Handelsbanken (another bank) finaces
the  scientists 10.000 CPU-hours / year with 15 Million Swedish Crowns (US$
2.600.000).  If you want to use the IBM, you'll have to pay  between 15.000
and  20.000 Swedish  Crowns per CPU-hour. The Cray is a bit cheaper to lend
at 7.000 Swedish Crowns per CPU-hour.
 
                              -=* OWNERS *=-

   Who  have got  the  money  to  run  these machines?  The IBM is owned by
Kommunen (the local government) and a company called  NorrData and the Cray
is  owned  by SAAB, who  gets  25%  of the  capacity in exchange for paying
running costs.

                        -=* USERS & USED TIME *=-

   Users of  these two sofisticated systems are mostly scientists, but also
two  big  universities, namely  UMEA and LINKOPING. The local government in
Skelleftea  use  the  IBM  for salary  payments on the side of  all science
projects, and like stated above, SAAB have 25% of the capacity on the Cray.
These  computers  are  not used to their full capacity today. If you make a
scale, you  would find that the IBM is have 60% administration, 30% resurch
and the final 10% is sold to the industry. The Cray  on the other side have
75% universities, and  25% SAAB.  But these figures just show how much time
that  is disposed,  not how  much is used. All  scientists who wants to use
these computers  are  granted  access today,  perhaps not the amout of time
they want, but still access.  There is a need for  more users and companies
to  make  these  computers worth  the money, time and  effort to have  them
running.

                           -=* SECURITY *=-

   The  American  export-control  authorities  have  restricted  Sweden for
export of  these machines to the East (which is understandable). In Sweden,
the  rules is  decided  by  Forsvarets Materielverk (Military), and include
several  restrictions  about foreign users  (certain nationalities) who are
not accepted  and  therefor can not use  the  computers. Accepted users are
supplied with a special  authorization-card and  an equipment that generate
passwords.

                           -=* THE FUTURE *=-

   Today,  the  most  reason  companies and users give when asking why they 
don't  use  these  computers more  or  at all, is that they are not running
under UNIX or some kind  of operating system  that  is  portable from other
systems. Therefor, these computers will have unix-similar operating systems
very soon, to allow new and more use and  portability of code and  programs
from smaller computers and systems.

 
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -8-

        =================
        SHA MEMBER BUSTED
        =================

	In October-90 a S.H.A. member was brutaly busted, and charged 
        for  creditcard  fraud  and  illegal  attemps  to enter  some
        computer-systems here  in Sweden.  The member spent 46 hrs in
        an  isolated  cell  at  the  central  Police  Headquarter  in
        Stockholm.  While he  was questioned, the police searched his
        house twice.
 
        - When I finally got home,  I nearly got a heartstroke,  some
          of my computer equipment was taken,  and the worst thing of
          all,  they had taken  ALL  my dumps, printouts and notes as
          evidence, says the busted hacker.

        <<More about this bust can be read in another S.H.A. release>>


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -9-
UNIX SECURITY

Unix is a very open OS and have many flaws in the security because of this.

The first security hole is the  /etc/passwd file that any user can read and
that contains the encrypted passwords.

It is  very  easy  to write a small program that use crypt(3),  the internal
unix cryption routine, to scan all accounts for common passwords or to match
against a dictionary. The one that unix have, can be used.

Newer unix versions like AIX,  the IBM version,  don't have the passwords in
the /etc/passwd,  since they are stored in a non-readable  file since the US
Defence C2 doesn't allow users access to encrypted passwords.

It is even possible  to  re-create a password through the encrypted version,
or atleast get a limited number of passwords to try.

Impossible, you might say. The passwords are one-way encrypted!

Yes!  They are...  but you also have more then one  password that gives the
same encrypted result since you lose information when you are encryting the
password.  You can go the other way and get about 4096  possible  passwords
and then only match  these against  /etc/passwd.  This is a great advantage
over  scanning all possible  combinations of root passwords in the standard
way might take a year or so before you hit.

The hard part is to get your hands on crypt(3)-source and be able to rever-
se the encryption...

And that isn't a easy way since crypt(3) isn't written to be  understood by
common people.  But it is possible...

 
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -10-

                   -=*> ARE YOU A HOMOCIDAL MANIAC? <*=-


If you are one, you truly are a danger to your surrounding and should be
visiting your local shrink, very often...

Answer these questions honest to yourself, and then count together your
points.
                   Written by a [normal] SHA contributor.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 1) You are watching this movie (Texas Chainsaw Massacre I), and when the
    hero  (Leatherface)  cuts  deeeeep  into  some  'poor' human with his
    roaring little motorised tool, what do you feel?

    [a] Ohhhh, brother. Disgusting, Puke!
    [b] Booo! Miserable special effects!!
    [c] You start drivelling...


 2) You're  at a party with all your friends gathered.  After a while you
    (ofcourse)  are  fighting as hell with some  stupid motherfucker that
    doesn't see that you're ALWAYS right. Ok, you win and the beaten shit
    runs to the door screaming "Hey, fuckface! You're lucky that I didn't
    kill you!" and slams the door shut behind him.
    What is your reaction?
 
    [a] Say "The fight is over, go home now!"
    [b] Scream back "Say that again and I'll kill YOU!"
    [c] You take something sharp from the nearest table (knife, siccors,
        vase) and run screaming after him.


 3) You've just bought some bread and beer for the weekend and suddenly
    you see a rifle with several boxes of ammo in an unlocked car.
    What do you do?

    [a] Goes home without thinking more about it.
    [b] Steal it, to sell it off later.
    [c] Drops everything you hold, open the car door, takes out ALL boxes
        of  ammo  and  load the  rifle.  And then  you go around shooting
        moving targets all the day (Cars, people, playing children, cats,
        dogs).


 4) You are driving down your street, and you see a woman and her two
    daughters waiting to go across the street. How do you react?

    [a] Stop your car to let them go across the street.
    [b] Stop your car to let them go across the street, and roars the engine
        just to frighten them as they pass your car's front.
    [c] Stop your car to let them go across the street, but when they are
        exactly infront of your car, you smash the pedal and run over them.


 5) You pass a window on the 15th floor and see somebody standing outside
    the building, just at the wide open window. Your plans?

    [a] Quietly sneaks away to dial 911.
    [b] Says "Boo!".
    [c] Says "Hello" with a friendly voice and when he turns around, you
        hit him real good in the stomach.


 6) What do you think about the TV documentaries about war?

    [a] Nah... I don't like to see people getting killed.
    [b] Good to know that it isn't faked, anyway.
    [c] What I think? I RECORD them, and then watch them until the tape
        fucks up.


 7) You are looking out the window on the 5th floor and see 8-10 people
    waiting for the bus, just below your window. Your actions?

    [a] Go back into the room and watch the games.
    [b] Get a 5 gallon bucket of water and throws over them.
    [c] Fill the same 5 gallon bucket with a gasoline/soapflake mixture
        and lighten it just as you throw it out the window.


 8) A friend owes you 5 bucks, and he haven't payed them back YET!

    [a] Phone him and ask if I can get my money back.
    [b] Phone him and DEMAND him to give the money back!
    [c] Phone him and tell him to say his last prays.


 9) You accidently hit a deer when you are driving to your work.
    What do you do now?

    [a] Go out and try to save the poor animal.
    [b] Go out and hit it over the head with the jack.
    [c] Go out and kick the bloody creature to death.


10) Your next door neighbour have a big (BIG) swimmingpool, and EVERY
    weekend he have BIG parties with at least 100 people invited, and
    it's a hell to get some sleep the whole Friday and Saturday.
    What shall you do about it?

    [a] Mail him a letter which says "If you don't stop having those
        loud parties every weekend, I'm calling the police."
    [b] Call the  cops and  tell  them that you've seen somebody get
        raped at your neighbours party.
    [c] Go out to  your car and drive it like  a madman through your
        neighbours hedges and hit everybody within reach.
    [d] Join the party.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additional questions: 1 point for No and 2 for Yes.

Do you shout HOORAY! everytime somebody gets killed in a movie?
Do you watch every splatter-rated movies more that 20 times?
Do you admire the German Leader during World War II?
Are you a collector of real, automatic weapons?
Are you dreaming of 'Shooting your way out'?

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         [a] is 1 points, [b] 3 points, [c] 5 points and [d] 0 points.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Points    Rating
------------------
10-       Relax, you're quite normal. Perhaps a little bit too normal.
  -20     Relax you too... You still have the chance to live a normal life.
  -30     Hmm... You should consider wheteher to be out on the street or not.
  -40     Never, NEVER go out without 5-10 pills of valium in your pocket!
  -50     You ARE a Homocidal maniac, there are no doubts. 
  -60     To make the world a safer place to be, commit suicide, please!

         
<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -11-

            ---------------------------------------------------
            & BRITTISH HACKERS BLACKMAIL FIVE BANKS IN LONDON &
            ---------------------------------------------------

   Atleast  five  banks in the London Financial world, City, have according
to the magazine Independent On Sunday been the target of blackmail attempts
since break-ins into their computersystems by so called 'hackers'.

   The  manipulations  started in May this year. To penetrate these systems
have, from the look of it, not been any problems for the pirates. They have
reached so far into the systems that they are able to creat chaos.

   None of the  five  banks have  paid,  at this date,  says Indipendent On
Sunday, and  states that the latest  discovered  manipulations could be The
most sofisticated ever in Great Britain.

   The pirates  seem to have certain connections between them,  but operate
individually and probably have no connections with organized crime.

   Within the banks,  they are worried that the customers confidence may be
undermined.  These crimes are investigated by the police and  Hambros Banks
Network  Security Managements specialist  in  computer  crimes.  The chief,
David Price, said he was confident the pirates would soon be arrested.

   The risk of computer crimes  increase as the computer-technique develops
faster and faster.  The security-routines become more complicated and takes
longer time to implement.


>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -12-

        ======================
        NEW S.H.A. HEADQUARTER
        ======================

        In February-91 a S.H.A. member is going out of the country,
        and because of that, the currently S.H.A. HQ is going down. 
        BUT,  a new board will be opened called Project Athena, and
        it will contain Swedens largest  Tfile-area when it's about
        Hacking/Carding/Phreaking/Terrorism/Thrashing and Anarchism.
  
        Watch out for the new phonenumber..


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -13-

SWEDISH UNIVERSITY HIT BY HACKERS

A major Univeristy in  Sweden have had their unix machines used buy non-
students for a long time.  They didn't know anything  about it until the
novice hacker got his hands on a password to the computers from a secure
bulletin board system.

A few  weeks later the system  managers at the  university detected that
one user hacked their computers.

The novice hacker had used  rlogin at  many  other targets.  Used FTP at
prime time and  downloaded many  megs of  files  and  stored  it on  the
computer. He also had big jobs running on the machine that tried to scan
passwd files that he had downloaded from other machines.

That was what got the system managers  attention since they lacked disk-
space.  They always checked that users didn't store  many files that al-
ready was on the computer in public libraries.  They  checked  the files
and discovered that he had  stored many  passwd files so they started to
watch the users account.

The system managers had programs running  24 hours a day trying to guess
passwords themselves  to  check out  their  own security and at the same
time control what the users were using on the machines when no operators
were present.

Later the  University decided to throw out the  student that  originally
had the  account that was used,  since they thought that he had done the
hacking. They main reason they would kick the student out wasn't because
he tried to hack,  which is  pretty common at Universities,  but for the
small damages the novcie hacker had done.

The only way to prevent the University from kicking out an innocent stu-
dent was to expose, to the system managers, that the computers were used
by other people. So the one who had originaly cracked the passwords from
the passwd file and posted them on a board, made contact with the system
managers and explained the situation, that some passwords had been drif-
ting around and that some people had used accounts on their computers.

This stopped the University from  kicking out the student,  but resulted
in that the University now have their security level raised.

Now your password must include one non alpha character and be at least 5
characters long.  All passwords  will be  changed  frequently and not as
before when a  student could have his  password for his whole studies at
the University.

Alas.. if the novice hacker hadn't have the password all this could have
been avoided.


>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -14-

                        NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS
                        NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                        NEWS     HACKER NEWS     NEWS
                        NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                        NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS

   NEW HACKERGROUP BUSTED.
   -Used false creditcards.

   Yet another hackergroup have been caught. The group is suspected to have
bought computer  equipment  with others  creditcards.  Not all hackers keep
themselves within the law's border. Now and then,  articles about teenagers
who have gone over the border, are published.  This time it's two teenagers
in  Stockholm  who have been caught and  interrogated.  "But our suspicions
points above all at one of them", said prosecutor Wulf Zippis at the distr-
ict attourneys office in Stockholm.

   This new case, have big similarities with a case we had about a year ago
said Zippis. Then, a big hackergroup, spread all over the country, was dis-
covered.  With the help of selfmade  computer-programs,  they could produce
creditcard codes for the creditcards MasterCard and Visa.  With the help of
these codes,  they then could  order merchandise from foreign countries for
hundred thousands of crowns.  The merchandise was  ordered in fake names to
P.O boxes and adresses.
 
   But though it involved large  amounts of money,  the hackergroup managed
to get away  with fines and conditional sentences - that time.  How it will
go this time,  prosecutor  Wulf Zippis wouldn't guess.  "The investigations
are still in full progress. We will have to see what the police discovers".
The hacker  comes  from  a  suburb  of  Stockholm,  is in his teens but not
legally competent.  Usually,  young  people  like  this,  gets  conditional
sentences and not a jail sentence, atleast if they haven't got any previous
records. The prosecutor wouldn't comment on how much the hacker have spent,
but he  confirms  that  it is of a substantial sum.  A guess would be round
300.000 crowns.


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -15-

 =============================
 ======== SMALL NOTES ========
 =============================

 The Swedish Telecom and the State-Owned datacompany Dafa are going to
 build a nation-wide teleNet called DafaNet.  It will be possible for,
 trough a  central  computer,  companies  to communicate directly with
 different authorities.  The thought is to offer the  customers a wide
 information-process with access to databases and  electronic message-
 systems. The Net is built with so called X 25-standard which makes it
 possible to  connect computers of a wide range of different fabricats
 to it.

 
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -16-

        ==================
        TELCO TRACES CALLS
        ==================

        Some months ago I decided to find out how fast the Telco could
        trace the calls and the answer is terrifying. It takes approx.
        2-3 seconds (local trace). And this is how I did the test:

        I went to a cafe'  and borrowed the telephone. The phonenumber
        was clearly printed at the bottom.. (let's say 123456)

        I dialed an operator and told her that I wanted a collect call
        to Hong Kong.After that I gave her the phonenumber I wanted to
        call, she said:
 
        - Ok I'll have to call you back in 5 minutes. What phonenumber
          are you calling from?

        - Uhh... I don't know, I'm call from a borrowed phone, I said.

        - Ok..hold on.
         
        After that she pushed some buttons, and said:
 
        - Are you calling from phonenumber 123456 ?

        That little test shows how fast they trace calls....
        A  good  advice  when  hacking computers  is  to  ALWAYS  dial
        through outdials ...


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -17-

                         NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS
                         NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                         NEWS     TERROR NEWS     NEWS
                         NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                         NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS

   THIS IS HOW YOU MAKE A LIGHTBULB BOMB.
   -They found book for terrorists.

   Qualified advice to terrorists exists in  ordinary  Swedish Bulletin Board
Systems. How to make weapons and timebombs home in your kitchen are explained
and very easy to understand. In just a couple to minutes, the two school-KIDS
Petter Aasheim and Jorg Akerlund from  Gothenburg,  theoretically learned how
to make nitroglycerin.

   Very alarming,  those who  want are able to get their hands on a dangerous
knowledge, said Torsten Bjorkhede, chief of SAPO (Swedish FBI) in Gothenburg.
The superintendent at the violence division, Hasse Carlsson is also  worried.
I have never heard of anything like this, he said.
 
   It was of a pure  accident that they came  across this information.  On a
Bulletin Board System  in  Kungalv,  "Halla Hogia",  they saw the headline -
The Terrorists Handbook. We were curious and brought home the text, the kids
said. About  100  sides  loaded with real  blowstuff  came from the printer.

   THE CHEMISTRY TEACHER WENT PALE.

   First I thought that the "handbook" was cool,  said  Petter Aasheim.  But
when he read through the material more thouroughly he changed his mind. With
this material, everyone can be a terrorist,  said his friend  Jorg Akerlund.
The two  kids  took the text to their chemistry teacher and let him read it.
Pale he said -  Go immediately to  the police  with this.  We have seen some
terrorist  handbooks earlier.  But nothing as detailed  like this one,  said
Trosten Bjorkhede. The author, an unknown American, shows the terrorists ABC
and very detailed too.

   THE CHEMIST'S HAVE MOST OF IT.

   All necessary substances for making explosives are listed.  Most of them
are available at the  Chemist's and  the rest can easily be found in listed
insecticides, fotoliquids and in usual stores. If the terrorist still can't
get his hands on the necessary ingrediences, the next step is to break into
a chemical lab/school room.  To be sure  that the  burglar doesn't miss any
vital substance, the author have included a check-list. It says  "if a lock
to the lab has to be forced,  the best picklock is dynamite followed by the
sledgehammer. Unfortunately, these methods make too much  noise.  The third
best way is therefor a set of picklocks." Thereafter follows a very thouro-
ughly described way on how to make your own picklock set.  When it comes to
the explosives, everything is very detailed, almost pedantic. EVERYTHING is
explained.
 
   SIMPLE TO MAKE A LIGHTBULB BOMB.

   The author recommends the highly explosive explosive R.D.X. According to
the "handbook",  it can easily be made home in the kitchen.  With drawings,
the author explains how to triggers and  timesettings should be done.  Then
it continues on how to make package-, book-, telephone- and lightbulbbombs.
It says "An authomatic reaction when you enter a dark room, is to light the
lamp. Though that can be very dangerous, if a lightbulb-bomb have been scr-
ewed into the socket. Such a thing is very easy to make. Start with heating
the bulb's socket with a gasflame..."  One  section  tells  about  weapons. 
There it is described how to re-build a  shot-gun into a  grenade-gun,  how
ordinary new-year rockets becomes bomb-carriers.  This must be investigated
right now. It can be a case of insugency, said the district attorney  Sven-
Olof Hakansson in Gothenburg.
 
   15-YEAR OLD RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BULLETIN BOARD SYSTEM.

   Responsible for the System "Halla Hogia" is a 15-year old from  Kungalv.
He doesn't know what  information  lies  available on his  own system:  New
things  arrive daily,  he said.  Do you know that you have  "The Terrorists
handbook" on your system? "No." Is it possible to check who sent it to you?
"No. All such information is erased after one week." Everything in the Sys-
tem is free. To access it, all you need to know is the telephone-number.

NEWSPAPER: EXPRESSEN
DATE     : 91/01/11
REPORTER : RIKARD BJORK
FOTO     : TOMMY NAZELL

(photo: The two kids (looking stupid) infront of a computer with the text:
 - We were curious. That is how Petter Aasheim and Jorg Akerlund explains
   the discovery of "The Terrorists handbook".  The dangerous information
   was found at an open Swedish Bulletin Board System.)


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -18-

                        NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS
                        NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                        NEWS     HACKER NEWS     NEWS
                        NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                        NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS

   NEW WAVE OF COMPUTER COUPS IN SWEDEN.
   HACKERS IN KARLSTAD AND LINKOPING ARRESTED.

   A wave of computer coups oozes over Sweden.  Those worst affected are
Swedish  universities that are  used  by  young  hackers.  Their illegal
entries have  cost  hundreds  of  thousands  crowns.  At a large Swedish
company,  a couple of  employees are  suspected for illegal entries at a
secret West-German database. 

   For the Swedish computer-police, the several coups wasn't unexpected. 
During the last months of 1989, the chief of the Swedish computer-police 
warned the public  about what was about to come.  Rolf Nilsson also said
that the next five years will be dangerous,  and that they expected some
kind of big bang.

   The real  devestating  bang in Data-Sweden haven't happened yet,  but
these illegal  entries are  enough  to  make  the  police  very nervous.
Several young hackers have, with the help of university-computers,  made
electronic journeys round the world.  On other locations,  students have
made  their  way  into  university-computers and tried to change salary-
payments and grades.  All togheter,  there  are about ten  young hackers
that's been charged, and they  have fines  or max 2 years in  jail ahead
of them. 
 
   The other investigation is conducted by SAPO  (Swedish FBI) and riks-
kriminalen,  and concerns five employees at a large Swedish company, who
have  illegaly entered a super-secret,  big database in West-Germany. At
this moment, the case is too sensitive, so the police can't give out any
information.  Though a Swedish  computer-magazine tells of an  institute
for  advanced mathematical processing  and  that the  West-German secret
police (BND)  have  asked for help to trace the intruders. As usual they
think the KGB is involved, like in the Hess/NATO case, which resulted in
conditional jail-sentences.

   Also when it comes to these  Swedish hackers,  the sentences will not
be of freedom-taking nature.  They  could  face a two-year jail-sentence
but it  will be very hard for the police  to find evidence showing  that
they had  criminal intentions.  "If you look at the bright side of this,
they  really should get high grades in this area",  said Stig Hakangard, 
who is perfekt at the institution for ADB at the school in Karlstad.

   These two hackers, aged 22 and 26, have illegally entered the schools
computer-terminal  and among other things,  destroyed a salary-register.
They are two  students,  who have one term of  programming  behind them. 
"When I look at it,  it seem to be a classic hacker-motive;  they wanted
to get as far into the system as possible without getting caught." Their
fall came after they  accidentaly  deleted a  salary-register,  and  the
system started to "ring the alarmbell". "We are very weak because of our
connections to SUNET,  and there are over  200 node-computers in Sweden,
so if you crack the password to the Net, the road is open and limitless.

   The police looks more  strongly at the coups in Linkoping,  where six
hackers have used the university-computer to call BBSs and databases in,
among other countries,  USA and Australia.  Four of them are charged and
could face fines or jail and pay for claimed damages.  (ie. phonebills).
They have succeded in  connecting with  commercial databases through the
central computer and their own home-computers, and they used the univer-
sity  identity  which  means  they  never had to use any passwords.  The
phonebills came as a shock to the university.  The first were at  60.000
US dollars,  and the second at 20.000 US dollars. The hackers were lucky
that time,  because the  Swedish  Telecoms  counters didn't work at that
time.

   Parallel investigations  are made to trace the  foreign hackers,  who
have managed to enter  Swedish computers through university-computers in
among other countries, Canada and Finland. 

   The final word here, is that the Swedish police is So nervous when it
comes to illegal entries,  that they always notify the Swedish Millitary
forces and SAPO when they discover new hacker activities and entries.


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -19-

 =============================
 ======== SMALL NOTES ========
 =============================

 Datema  sold their  daughter-company  Datema Konsult AB  to the Swedish
 Computer-central.  The company have 28  employees and is specialized in
 servicebureau activities and economy-administrative consult activities.


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -20-

            =================================================
            S.H.A. VISITED AN EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY COMPUTER.
            =================================================

        In August-90 a SHA member hacked his way into an ESA computer,
        and got access to a lot of interesting stuff.

        - It took me 3 minutes to hack that computer, so I can't call
          that security, says the hacker.



                       NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS
                       NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                       NEWS     HACKER NEWS     NEWS
                       NEWS     -----------     NEWS
                       NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS NEWS


   HACKERS BOUGHT COMPUTERS - ON OTHERS CREDITCARDS

   Two teenagers have been exposed  as hackers.  They have  bought computer-
equipment for 100.000's of crowns and paid with others creditcards. We think
that they got the numbers from  computers,  said the  district attorney Wulf
Zippis.

   The Police' computer-experts  suspect  that they are connected to a group
of hackers, who have made the numbers with own computer-programs. That group
was revealed eight months ago and  consists of computer-knowledged teenagers
between 16 and 20 years.

   Most of them are students on the Nature-scientific or Technic course, and
they live from Umea in the north to Lund in the south and have a common int-
erest; the possibility of the computer.

   USED FAKE NAMES

   The two, who are arrested, live in one of the suburbs of Stockholm. After
long hearings we are now working on how they made this possible, said Zippis.
We know that they ordered the merchandise in fake names with false adresses,
and paid with false creditcard numbers.  How  they  got  their  hands on the
secret numbers will be investigated.

   I can't tell you how large sums that are involved, but sure,  it is large
amounts of money, said Zippis. One of the two teenagers is described as very
talanted, but lack of interest in school-work got him lousy grades. He cons-
entrated his talent in the technical world of computers.  Looked for success
in  hacker-circles and bought  advanced computer-technique on others credit-
cards.  The numbers were made by a computer-program which had been made by a
group of hackers.  Rikskriminalens computer-experts  have  had long hearings
with the teenagers, and their story have had a similar pattern:

   They have gotten a home  computer and  joined a club.  In computer games,
they have found new ideas and improved the technique with help  from modems.

   VISA AND MASTERCARD

   With help from modems, they have connected with databases and found inter
national lines.  One of the  members of the group, stole a list with blocked
creditcards. With the computer, they discovered how the 16 numbers were made.
That's the way they made numbers for VISA and Mastercard creditcards.  After
that, it wasn't very hard to buy equipment from American mailorder companies.
To leave a number of a creditcard that is not blocked is enough. The mercha-
ndise were delivered to P.O. Box adresses in fake names. The bills were del-
ivered to the owners of the cards.


-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-
                                    -21-

                           HOW TO KEEP ON HACKING


    I. Password and number swapping
   II. Single or Parallel hacking?
  III. What a hacker can do and still be a hacker
   IV. Hiding your stuff and safety precautions



I. Password and number swapping

  This is a subject where almost everybody have their own opinion, whether to
swap hacked systems with total strangers  or only within some kind of limited
circle.

  The smartest thing to do is of course  Not to  swap with  people  you don't
know, like putting them up on Public Bulletin Boards and so on, this is  VERY
stupid; Why? Well, imagine that you give out the userid's necessary to access
the system you've hacked and alot of people start to call it and do what they
can. Then... you notice the outidal that's been hidden in some strange direc-
tory. What do you do know?  The system will maybe change their number because
of the XX calls they get per day all of a sudden, and when the same userid is
logged in 10 at a time, you'll have to wardial their new number...Clever? No.

  And even worse,  the computer will  might not have it's number  changed, it
maybe  'only'  increase their system security, tracing  suspicious calls etc.
It's the same thing about Numbers to systems you Haven't hacked (yet).

  I think  you  agree  with me that the  smartest thing to do is to keep your
numbers and passwords to yourself,  if you want to keep on having the  system
'at your service'.

  The way to keep  numbers  and passwords within some kind of circle or group
is also a way of Not letting numbers and passwords slip away. Decide and make
Your own rules on how these things should be handled,  do it for a start,  so
you have it written if something occurs (your favorite system crashes...).

  In Sweden, I know this is a SERIOUS problem for hackers that have gone thr-
ough lots of trouble getting into a system,  and after  giving it to a friend
that couldn't  SHUT UP about it, the result is that the system changes number
or increases the level of security. I know that MANY boards are letting their
amateur  hackers go berserk on systems they just found!  This is not good for
anyone, not the hackers and not the systems.

The  (now) best way to solve this should be to validate the members that want
to join a certain  (hacker) meeting, where they can tell eachothers what they
know / what they've found.


So hackers and other people, Share Experiences, Not Passwords.




II. Single or Parallel hacking?

Which way is the best? In some situations it's difficult to say.

  In systems, where your hack cannot be hidden (Printer log etc) you might
have to take all the data possible from the system (under time stress...),
and this is when  parallel hacking is best,  two persons can  Capture more
than one.

  But ofcourse, you choose how many you are in at the time  (downloading).
Two is though  preferable,  because it's easier  (and Faster!) to speak to
eachother  through  the  system and tell one another what to do,  and that
you're not storing the same data. In all other situations, the single hack
is the best hack. You get more out of it for yourself.




III. What a hacker can do and still be a hacker

First of all, my definition of a Hacker;
---------------------------------------

-Describe short what a hacker is.

 A hacker is someone who want to learn more about current systems and in
 some cases, their security systems.


-What is a hacker's purpose when he's entered the system?

 A Hacker  NEVER  destroy anything vital for the system,  this is one of
 the basic rules.  Then he should take care of all  interesting  data he
 can access and take it home, and after that, explore how This very sys-
 tem works.  Are there perhaps any changes compared to similar operating
 systems?


-What happens to hackers that destroy systems then?

 First, a 'hacker' that destroys systems frequently should NOT be called
 a hacker at all. Crasher  ([System-] Cracker) is the word for that kind
 of people.




IV. Hiding your stuff and safety precautions

* Hacking:
  -------
   USE outdials! (dialouts). An 'outdial' is a modem that you are able to
   use through a computer,  it's connected to the telephone network,  and
   allows you to make ordinary calls.

   You use outdials in two purposes;  One,  to make your hacks  harder to
   trace,  and two,  keeping your phonebills on an acceptable level.  The
   most preferable is to use outdials And diffrent gateways when you hack
   systems that are highly protected against intruders. Gateways are com-
   puter hosts who allow you to connect to further  computers and/or net-
   works.

   Try to make this a rule, Always Use Outdials.
 
   Also,  you should know that Outdials are  Very usual in a system,  but
   the  chance that it's un- or lightly protected is very small.  Another
   thing to  remember is that  (almost)  everyone Wants  an outdial,  but
   nobody got one. If You find an Outdial, keep it to yourself.

   The Swedish telecom can trace your call in one second  (AXE within Sw)
   when the  conditions are the best.  If you are calling through several
   outdials and gateways,  it  could  take the company  (and the Telecom)
   hours to trace you.

   If the System Operator breaks in and starts to talk to you, don't piss
   him off, try to  (IF possible)  make friends with him, point out weak-
   nesses in the system etc,  impress him,  but it takes alot to do this,
   so you know. If you're  REALLY lucky, it Could be another hacker.  But
   don't bet on it! System Operators very seldom interrupts his users, no
   matter how  weird  they are  behaving,  his  orders  are to  report to
   security.

* Magnetic Storages (Diskettes, Harddrives, Tapes):
  ------------------------------------------------
   The very best way is to crypt the  'hot'  data so you never have some-
   thing to fear.  If the cops ask you what that strange file is, you say
   it's a game save or what ever you like.

   The second best way is to have your data hidden in a safe place  (This
   is NOT  under  your bed, in the basement or in the garage).  But where
   should you keep it then?  A way is to keep it at one of  your friends,
   preferable  someone who doesn't know shit about computers, and have no
   connections to the world of hacking.

   The worst,  but  most  effective way to keep  data out of the hands of
   some stupid investigator, is to destroy it. Erase  (Equals NOT Format)
   the Hard drive/s,  smash your  diskettes.  But as you know, both these
   ways take some time, and you can never revive it yourself.

   Choose crypting.

* Dumps (Print-Outs, Hard Copies):
  -------------------------------
   REALLY avoid printing user and/or password lists, if you do, ALWAYS
   keep them in a place only you know about. And if some old dumps are
   out of date, burn them! Or put them through your document destroyer.
   Keep ALL kind of  'delicate'  dumps on  One place, so that you have
   them all put together (Easy to hide/destroy)

   DO NOT put up 'hot' dumps on  your wall or on your monitor, this is
   only stupid,  put them in  boxes or in a cover.  When the cops come
   with their search warrant, you can walk to the police house  with a
   smile on your face. NEVER have headers like 'PASSWORDS FOR ABC SYS-
   TEMS' on ANY list!

* Your friends:
  ------------
   Never brag about systems you've  hacked in public rooms or similar,
   perhaps this is where some  large-eared  person reports to his com-
   pany, and your next login could be expected.  Bad.  Also don't brag
   about hacked  systems in public meetings, and if you do, don't name
   any names or any clues.

   NEVER keep names OR handles of your hacker mates on notes or dumps.
   This is one of the easiest ways  for the cops to find out how  many
   hackers you know (and have connections with).

   More, don't keep numbers to  'special' boards lying on your desk or
   up on the walls, this could result in Very Bad Things.

* The Law:
  -------
   Don't give the cops a hard time  when they  come  (i.e don't fight,
   Stupid!) let them take your computer, diskettes and print-outs. You
   are prepared, you know. If they are crossexamining you,  hour after
   hour,  Don't tell them anything, the only  'evidence'  they have is
   perhaps a traced phonecall.  They will  probably tell you that they
   know all about what you have been up to,  and that you better speak
   up. Don't care, they're lying.

   If they  name  some  names  on  systems  and people  (And you might
   recognize  some  of them. Your best friend's name for example)  and 
   ask you  what you  know about them,  you don't know shit.  They are
   only shooting in the dark.  Even if they say that your hacking mate
   also is under arrest,  and that he has confessed everything,  don't
   care, they're telling you lies again.

   Rememeber, you're not under oath.

   If you're well prepared,  an arrest is nothing more than some days/
   weeks without hacking. Ofcourse, the police is making a BIG mistake.

   Never under-estimate the cops' knowledge about  computers and comp-
   uter communication! Yes, 99% of them are total idiots when it comes
   to computers,  but if you tell them some really strange shit  (made
   up),  the 1% cop might be listening to you, and they will put 2 and
   2 together.  It's better to tell them 'I don't know' then telling a
   bunch of lies, because a  'I don't know'  can NOT be said is a lie.
   Tell them that, EVEN if you have the system's telephone number tat-
   ooed in your forehead.

   And, if you're not 18 years old (in Sweden),  they might ask you if
   they should call your parents.  Let them do that,  so they can tell
   the police that 'He's always been such a nice boy' etc etc.

   If you  REALLY are into deep shit  (forgot that print-out  on  your
   monitor, didn't crypt your Hot files...), don't give up anyway! You
   COULD have  downloaded  that  list from a public BBS  (on which you
   forgot the name, number, city and country...).  And if the time and
   date on some print-outs/files talks against you,  tell them that it
   is the wrong  time/dates  and show them how easily it is to set the
   computer clock.

   Precautions if you're busted. BEFORE you're busted,  make up alarm-
   call chains with  your  friends.  That means, you decide who should
   call who, and warn them about a bust.  And if  someone in the chain
   isn't available,  you just call the next person om your chain-list.
   And as I mentioned before,  do not write names or handles, just put
   up their initials or words related to the persons.


 - All these safety precautions and procedures may seem silly as you are
   sitting there, comfortable in your chair. But if you are carried away
   in hand cuffs, you really wish you SHOULD have hidden those dumps and
   crypted those files.


-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-

As it's written in Phrack;
You SHOULD be paranoid, you ARE doing something illegal.

-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-/-

<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -22-

                              'THE BIG SYSTEM'

                              Author: The Chief
                              Written 1989-1990

         For more stories and deep thoughts, contact me at the number
                  to the MAILBOX with some nice Fan-Mail.

   As a young hacker, I left early for the BIG systems. The small ones   
  didn't last long enough. Soon I had nestled myself into some very big
  systems and found that they were very much like the smaller ones.
  I had to find a REALLY OUTRAGEOUS BIG system, to satisfy my needs...
  
         IF YOU WANT TO GO FURTHER INTO THIS STORY, YOU'LL NEED 
        SOME ADVICE AND SOME OTHER VARIOUS THINGS MENTIONED BELOW.

  If you are a one of my fans, skip this section, else goto the next line.
  Return. (just kidding!)
  Ok, so you have picked up this file at your local underground board, eh?
  Nice. I like to see the GOOD files, on every GOOD UGD-Board! Back to earth.

  You will need the following: 
                            
                          A Coke
                          A Flashlight
                          A Pack of chips
                          A Good sense of humour
                          A Rainy day or a Sunny day for reading
                          A Couple of days to finish this story!


     The advise mentioned above: Don't let this story out of your hands!
            There are Serpenin-spys looking for it everywhere!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
___________________________________CHAPTER ONE_________________________________

    I was 15. The sun shined and the grass was green. The neighbours sexy
21-year-old daughter, Marielle, licked the sun in a sunchair next to their 
swimmingpool and our dog "Phileas" chased butterflies. It was the first day 
of summer in Charmington where I lived. 

    From my bedroom-window on the second floor, I had the best view in the 
neighbourhood. Marielle had a tight body-bikini, and I could see her lying 
there, sweating, the sun licking her body from her head to her toes. I just 
waited for the moment when she would unwrap the bikini, because of the heat, 
and reveal those unreal breasts like she always did. This time though, it 
didn't seem to happen...she was not on time...Well..I'll stick around a 
couple of minutes more, I thought, and waited. 

    The birds sang, the sun burned, almost no wind and the town slept.
My mom and dad were visiting the grandparents and my sister was out with her
friends so this time would be perfect for Marielle to show me her beautiful
body, but nothing had happend yet, and I wondered if she was sleeping...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
____________________________________CHAPTER TWO________________________________

    "Special Computers Designed Here" said the sign by the mailbox. Steve
Spingleman talked on the phone with a Head Executive at GCEC, Government
Computer Engineers Center.

- That is not etical to do, said Spingleman with a broken voice.

- Mr. Spingleman...Steve...This isn't my field. You must understand that I
  am but a mere messenger. If I do not follow orders, I will loose my job.
  If you have any objections to this project, you'll just have to talk to
  my superiors. Here...you can call this number if you have any
  trouble or questions.

    Spingleman heard the man, known to him as Mr. Jensen, messing around
in the room, searching for the phonenumber. Drawers were opened and closed
again, papers lifted and put down again. Finally he came back to the phone.

- Here it is! Ok, Steve...055-381-289662.

    He said the numbers one and one once more to make sure Spingleman got
the number correct.
 
- This number goes directly to the GCE Experiment Center and there you'll
  reach me and my superiors. Just DON'T show this number to anyone else, Ok?

    Spingleman thought for a while, and then he decided what to say.

- Allright Mr. Jensen. I'll try, but I can't assure you that this will work.
  This is a highly complicated computer you ask for and my experiences with
  these sort of things are but none.

    Spinglemans voice had become nothing but a whisper. It shivered when he
tried to make his way out of the project with a lie.

- Ah, come now, Mr. Spingleman. You know that we know all about you and that
  these sorts of experiments are your speciality, or should I say, WERE your
  speciality.

    Steve Spingleman now realised that he had to go through with it, even
if it was unetical, unreal and very dangerous. If he hadn't..... No. That
was long ago, and he couldn't change the past. He hated GCEC and this Mr.
Jensen who leaved him with no alternative but to do this dirty work for him.

- Mr. Spingleman?

- Yes, I'm still here, said Spingleman. I understand your terms...

- Good. Let's hope that this project will float smoothly and that you'll
  follow my advise. We don't want anything to happen, do we Mr. Spingleman? 
  No.. I didn't think so, Mr. Jensen said, answering his own question. We 
  will contact you if something comes up. Goodbye Mr. Spingleman.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
_________________________________CHAPTER THREE_________________________________

    Daydreaming...that was something for a troubled mind, and right now
my mind WAS troubled. Marielle DIDN'T unwrap the bikini! As a 15-year-
old boy, your mind will undoubtely be on a constant lookout for girls and
sex, that is a fact, but the average teenager will never have such an oppor-
tunity as I had here with Marielle, so I was known as "The lucky one" among 
my friends.

    Suddenly something happend. Marielle started to move, and my eyes homed
in on the target. She sat up in the chair and looked around. Now
I recognise you, my mind said, and opened a memory-bank for storing what
was about to happen. She stood up....and went into the house!...
Memory Error, my mind said and closed itself. Damn! What was she doing?!
I was ready to give up, and go back to my computer, when she came out again.
 
    She had a sun-lotion bottle in her right hand, walking to the chair
again, but changed her mind at the last moment and walked to a table, which
stood just behind a tree, out of the view from my window. I ran to my sisters
room. The view from that window was better than mine, and a lot closer too.

    She was exercising! Bending over, lifted a leg, made sit-ups and so on.
Fantastic! This was great! When she appeared to be finished, she opened the
sun-lotion bottle and started to rub it on her sun-tanned skin. Then it
happened, and my mind opened about 20 Megabyte for storage at the same time.

    The bikini fell on the ground and I was in heaven. She rubbed the lotion
all over, and took her time doing it. I had the time of my life (consider my 
age will you!). Soon she went back to the sun-chair and I went back to my 
room and the window. Now she was lying there...with only a pair of small 
bikini-trousers covering her fantastic body. If I just had some courage, I 
thought, I would go down and talk to her.

- Hello!

    The sound made me jump. My parents stood in the doorway to my room.

- How has your day been, son, my father said with a big smile covering his
  face.

- You should have been there with us! We found two new flower-spicies so now,
  your grandfather has thirty-two different ones. Isn't that fantastic, mother 
  said in a state of extasy.

- Fantastic, I muttered in an attempt to sound excited.

- Well, dinner's ready, said mother on her way out of my room. We bought fried 
  chicken at the Drive-in so hurry before it gets cold.

    To buy drive-in-food is like buying walked-in-shoes. You can wear both.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
__________________________________CHAPTER FOUR_________________________________

    Steve Spingleman jumped by a noise too. The "click" in his ear
when Mr. Jensen hung up. Boy, was he in trouble now! GCEC had ordered
a very special computer from him, because he was the best computer builder
when it came to specialities. This demanded his full attention and skill.
The other customers just had to wait...but for how long? This computer would
take at least 2 years to build even though he already had started on a proto-
type which he had hooked up with one of his own inventions, an XX EXPRESS
digital and optical modem. To have it "on-line", as a service to the customers, 
whom, ofcourse had very special wishes, were for test reasons only because of 
the fact that nothing is ever perfect the first time. Every progress he made,
were added to the prototype for his customers to call-in, look at and try out.

    His customers were not of the "normal" kind, if you can call people
normal these days. No, to mention some of his customers, there were the
State Department, ASA (American Space Agency), YMCA (Yugoslavian Micro
Computer Association), STATE (Soviet Tolerance Approval Tecnology Engineers)
and GCEC which I presume you have heard about. All of them had their special 
wants and needs, which Spingleman worked on. Now they had to wait. 

    Spingleman went over to his laboratory to collect the package he had
recieved from GCEC earlier this friday. It contained the plans for the
computer and what they wanted it to do for them. The package was a 7 kilo
big box with the word "CONFIDENTIAL" scattered on all sides. He opened it.

    4 Videocasettes on the HRTV-D (High Resolution TV - Digital) format
with digitally scanned maps of the computer. 2 DAT-C (Compact DAT) Cassettes 
with information and the rest of the 7 kilos were encrypted filled laboratory-
tubes and paper-discs, a new invention by himself and a big success on the 
market. When there were no trees left anywhere, the World Crisis Federation 
had called to order a new kind of paper, and he made the paper-discs. How they 
looked like? How you used one? It's too complicated to understand, but if you 
are a true knowledge-eater you can look in the dictionary at the end of this
book.

    He picked up all of it and put it on the big designer-table to study
the maps and read the discs when someone logged onto the his prototype
computer.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
_________________________________CHAPTER FIVE__________________________________

    I saw the text on my monitor.

				"ACCESS DENIED"
		      "YOUR DIGITAL NUMBERS DO NOT MATCH"

    Damn. This was one of the new XX EXPRESS modems which could spot the
number and PBX-X you called from and had special numbers for access. Well,
the hacker-underground had discussed these modems for a while now so I decided 
to call the DRAGONFIRE ugd board to see how far the discussion had come.

    Letters and more letters. It took me twenty minutes to answer all of them
and if you are a knowledged modem-user you know how long that is, if you use
the automatic answerer! In the Hacker-conference there had finally been a 
breakthrough and a new gear called METROSPECTIVE had been built for breaking
XX and XY EXPRESS modem security systems. I talked to Mr. Farmhouse (the "dad" 
in our circle) and he promised to send one the same day. What are friends for?! 

    I had all of the "pre-desolation" gear from boxes to programs written in
a long gone and "dead" language called Pascal. My friends in the hacker 
comunity called me "The Collector" for obvious reasons. I was called a lot of 
things back then. New gear and inventions had become standard those days and I 
liked to try them out. The Metro (short for METROSPECTIVE) was brand new. I had 
a XX EXPRESS number, so to try the Metro on it was a must for me. I hadn't a 
clue to where I was calling and the unbelevable things that would happen to me 
because of my curiosity.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
__________________________________CHAPTER SIX__________________________________

    Spingleman looked at the screen. Someone had called, but didn't have the
correct access to enter his system. He should have been worried about it, but
wasn't. Perhaps a "wrong-number" call. That was common these days with the 
complex ISDNS telephone system. 

    When they introduced ISDN in the 1990's, it had been a step forward, but 
the ISDNS (SONIC) had turned out to be a much too complex system for the 
average user. No-one really knew the possabilities of the system becuse of
the inconvinient and strange deaths of the inventors. Actually, no-one knew
where they had gone! They just dissapeared one by one, all of them good 
friends to Spingleman and this happened during his work on the prototype.

    Spingleman went back to his studies with a troubled mind. Tormented by
what he had remembered and the pictures of his friends still in his mind.

    The digital maps on the video-board showed a complete build-up of the
computer GCEC had ordered. Any ordinary person who studied these maps would
have given up after approximately thirty seconds. The complexity of the maps
were total but Spingleman just took a look at them and saw the errors at once.
This could not be what they wanted?, Spingleman thought for himself. These
errors were small but there were many of them. If he followed these maps, the
computer would explode within five minutes after startup.

    If he used two-bolted merentors instead of one-bolted ones.....
Spindleman started to re-draw the maps with the videoscan-pen, correcting
the errors, working through the night.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
________________________________CHAPTER SEVEN__________________________________

    I was roughly awakened by Phileas, licking my face. I looked at the alarm
clock, it said 11.45 am and I tried to go back to sleep. Suddenly I remembered
that I would recieve the Metro today, and that the Electronic Package Service
closed 12.00 Sharp on Saturdays! I got out of bed and was ready to leave for 
the EPS office six seconds later.

    I stumbled up the stairs to the office, pushed the door and the clock
showed 12.00. Just in time! The package, at the size of a micro-stereo, had
arrived. On my way home I met my sister, Angelica, and her friends who were
working on a beach-party, due that night next to our house.

- Hi bro', Angelica said, goin' to our party tonite? Megan wants to see you,
  you know...

    Angelica had gotten her accent from her surf-friends who lived on the beach
and whom she almost lived with. Megan was one of her friends who (if I may
say so) had had a crush on me for the last few weeks. Though she was one of 
the most beautiful girls I had ever seen, I had never gotten the chance to 
talk to her alone so this could be the perfect opportunity.

- I'll think about it, I said.

    Angelica sat her elbow in my side and went back to her friends with a 
smile on her face. Walking towards the house, I saw Angelica talking to 
Megan, and I got nervous.

    Later that day I connected the Metro to one of the expansion-slots of my 
computer to try it out. Just when I was going to start it the phone rang.
I pressed the "off hook" button and heard....

- The Fourth world war has started.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
_________________________________CHAPTER EIGHT_________________________________

    J.C. Harris was one of the two new-hired engineers at GCEC. His record had
been spotless and his skills on computer-design couldn't be measured. That is
to say that he was one of the best in the country. Right now though, he was 
sitting in an office, waiting for a man known to him as Mr. Jensen, and an 
assignment.

    His thoughts wandered to the time when he was a young enthousiast and
didn't have any problems to handle. He had been the best in his class and had
finished all courses he attended with top marks without any attempts to study.
Nowadays the schools had made efforts in computer-security, and the hackers
efforts in breaking it, but he knew that they couldn't break it. A smile swept
over his face when he thought of his "unbreakable" system.

    Thirty hours. He tasted the two words once more, just to make it under-
standable to himself. Thirty HOURS! That was too unbelievable even to himself.
The computer system then, had been quite simple he remembered, but THIRTY
hours?! He had boken the security-name in just two seconds by looking in the
principal secretary's big black book once when he was left alone in her room.
But the password had been a big barrier. No "usual" password had worked and
nothing you ordinary would try, like the name of their dog, children or mother-
in-Law either.

    Noriegamodular5. When he entered that and it worked, he didn't believe his
eyes. The Sonic planet Noriegamodular5, named after a dictator in central-
America in the 20th century, had been the home-planet of the secretary's little
pet, the grywlow. What a password that was. Phew.. and it took him thirty hours
to figure that out. With the "live" programs of today, that password would have
been halfway to the 99th moon of Trolarian by now. Known to everyone.

    Fiftyfive seconds later "Mr. Jensen" arrived in his black Mercedes 995 COEC
(Computer Oriented Electric Car). He carried the black suitcase in a steady
grip. His black suit and gloves were made by the JJJ company, the most ex-
pensive designer of clothes, known to be untapable and never torn. The security
system accepted his C-AXS card and opened the big, armed doors revealing a
man, standing, waiting for him. "Mr. Jensen" signaled to the man, who ofcourse
was Harris, to come with him into his office. When Harris had closed the door
behind him, seven guards grabbed him and carried him into a cirkular shield
and left him there.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
________________________________CHAPTER NINE___________________________________

     "Hi Kev", the voice said.

     "Christ, Matt, You scared the hell out of me, you know!"

     "I know", Matt said in a just-ment-to-be-funny tone.

     Since the computer at WCC went crazy because of our biggest and most
interesting 'hacks' ever, and tried to start the Third world war (which
happend anyways..), I hadn't been that active in the hacker-community, but
now, with a new invention, the Metro, and a new and interesting number, I
couldn't stay out.

     "I saw you'd been on the Dragonfire yesterday, and that the 'Old Man'
      ehrm... Farmhouse I mean, had sent you the latest and greatest equip
      around these parts, The Metro I mean, and as usual, when you get your
      hands on a piece of merchandise like that, you have a new place to
      try it out on! Am I right or am I right buddy?"

      It was no secret that I tried most of the new stuff for the rest of
the hackers, because of my knowledge (modest remark), and that I usually had
more places to try them on that any of the others, but I never gave a number
away, and all of them knew that, but that didn't keep them from trying until
I had to actually throw them out of the bathroom!
 
      Matt had a great job by the way. He worked at the Intercom Packaging
Service who handled all of the Electronic Packages North of Lake Acid, and
therefor knew what every package contained, where it came from and for whom
it was. I had been waiting for him to call, but not this early. I guessed
that this equipment, The Metro, was something special. But I hadn't been
following the conversation in the InterInvention meeting for atleast two
weeks, and I now knew I should have.

     "Yes I have a place to try it out on, but you know I can't let you
      in on it as you probably already have guessed as usual, Matt."

     "Ah, come on Kev", Matt said in his ordinary 'begging' voice, "You
      know I never, and I mean NEVER spread things I get from you, or
      don't you?"

     "Yes, I know...", I said, and tried to continue.
 
     "So what's the problem, Kev?... Buddy... Old pal of mine!"

     "I haven't tried it yet! I just got the damn thing a..."

     "Yes I know", Matt giggled, "Remember where I work?"
 
     "Yes I know where you work Matt, but as I said, I just got it,
      and was just about to try it out, and you interrupted me!", I said.

     "Yeah? Matt said. "You'll let me in on it later then, right?"

     "Sure, I said", trying to get him off the line. "I'll let you
      in on it later, Okay?"
 
     "Ok, fine! I knew you wouldn't forget me, old PAL! I call you in
      an hour, and then we can talk, ok bye!"
 
     "Try tomorrow, or next week!", I tried to say, but the 'click'
      got there before me.

      Jeez! Matt really was my best friend and pal, but he always wanted
to know and learn everything. Now you probably say, 'Hey! That's just what
Hackers are all about!', and I couldn't agree with you more, but you just
hear me out on this one first! He wanted to know, when we was about five
years old, how you 'get it on' with a woman (referring to Marielle Peterson)
and at six years of age, he wanted to know how a rocket scientist ate lunch.
At seven years, he wanted to know how to make succini with red sauce. I can
continue with this list, but I would then take up all the space in this story
and the story will be untold. I hope that's NOT what you want to read.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  For the complete story, or other stories, contact me at the MAILBOX.
  (c) 1989, 1990, 1991 THE CHIEF STORY SERIES(r)


<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                    -23-
           
          Sorry about all the spelling-errors, but hey, You read it!

                  See you all in the next year REPORT !!
                Members: The Inside Int. Hackers Association
                    #1 1991 is sent to you in February
                and will contain, among other nice things:

 'The World of the Hacker'.... The first Swedish doctor's thesis about Hackers!
 'The Chief's StoryLine'...... New Story from The Chief! Long awaited!
 'The Verdict'................ S.H.A. Member trial news and his verdict.

                                    See you all Members in February!
                                                               -ED-

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -24-

                               NEWS REPORTERS:

            The Swedish Hackers Association welcomes ALL NEWS
            containing  information  from  the  hacking-world.
            To  report YOUR  news: Call our boards in  Sweden
            and leave a  message  there containing  Your news!

                                  OTHERS:

          This number is to an ordinary BBS in Sweden, so if you
          consider yourself a REAL Hacker,  you know what you're
          doing, and want to contact us, maybe to join,  or give
          us a hand,  or perhaps  to thank  us for this splendid 
          issue (haha); Call +46-(0)11-138259 and write a Letter
          to MAILBOX. Use the command 'MAIL MAILBOX'. If you want
          us to answer your letter, be a member of the BBS so we
          can send our reply through the mailbox to you. 

          * IMPORTANT * Remember to write where you found this
          issue (THE NAME & NUMBER of the BBS thank you).


          Message to all connected to the Police, Law or likewise:
          --------------------------------------------------------
          Sorry guys! You can't get us! The Swedish Secure boards
          are restricted and private. Still, to reach us, call;

                       + 4 6 - 8 - 7 1 6 6 4 6 5
                                  or
                       + 4 6 - 7 5 3 - 7 6 0 0 0

          These numbers are for POLICE ONLY, so all of you other
          guys, DON'T call these numbers! It is on your own risk
                               if you do!

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
                                    -25-

   The material in this document is NOT ment to encourage hacking, cracking
       or illegal entering to computer systems. The Swedish Hackers 
         Association can NOT be blamed for any abuse caused by it.
              The Swedish Hackers Association is formed only
               to inform the public what hackers and hacking
                   really mean, and to report all hacking
                      news and events to the readers. 


