





        ***    *   *   ****  *****  ****     ****    *****    *    *     
       *   *   *   *   *   * *      *   *    *   *     *     * *   *     
        *      *   *   *   * *      *   *    *    *    *    *   *  *     
         *     *   *   ****  ****   ****     *    *    *    *****  *     
          *    *   *   *     *      * *      *    *    *    *   *  *     
       *   *   *   *   *     *      *  *     *   *     *    *   *  *     
        ***     ***    *     *****  *   *    ****    *****  *   *  ******

                        **        **    ***
                       * *       *  *      *
                      *  *      *  * *      *
                         *      *  * *   ****
                         *      * *  *      *
                         *       *  *      *    Enhanced Version...
                       *****  *   **    ***

                                By Evan Anderson

 :::::::::
::Welcome::
 :::::::::

        Weclome to Super Dial 1.03. I had not planned to ever write any more 
vesions of Super Dial after I released 1.00, but my mind has been changed. I 
started to get complaintsabout version 1.00 and didn't want my "Programming 
Image" flawed. As wonderfully simple as a wardialer is, version 1.00 had TOO 
MANY bugs. You had to reboot to exit the program, it wouldn't run on some 
machines, the dialing delay was set a 30 seconds (hell for tone dialing users!),
it had no terminal program, it would default to 1200 baud, it forgot to save 
some carriers, it locked up on 2400 baud carriers, it was easy to hack, it only 
used com1, it wasn't very attractive, and it had terrible documentation. Well, 
all of these problems have been solved in version 1.03.

 ::::::::::::::::::::::
::What is a wardialer?::
 ::::::::::::::::::::::

        Okay, a wardialer is a primary and important tool of computer hackers. 
Picture this, you are a hacker, and there is a bank computer across the street 
you'd like to hack but you can't get the phone number !!??!! Okay, you just get 
out your favorite wardialer (Super Dial 1.03) and set it up to call all of your 
town (or cities) phone numbers. Now, this is the hard way, and if you can find 
out in what range the other computer's phone number is (by looking at the 
numbers for other lines in the bank) it works much faster.
        The second, and most popular use of a wardialer is to find BBS's. It, 
when given instructions, can start at a certain phone number, and dial all the 
numbers till it gets to the second number specified. Okay, I want to see if 
there are any BBS's in my town, so I'd tell the wardialer to dial 555-0000 to 
555-9999. It would dial all the numbers in between, and including 5550000 and 
5559999 sequentially till it reached 5559999 at which time it would stop. Now 
this is pointless, right ? Wrong ! If your modem finds a carrier signal on the 
other end of the line, it would connect, and the wardialer would make a note on 
disk that there is a carrier at the end of that number.
        You see, this program does have a purpose after all !

 ::::::::
::Set-Up::
 :::::::

        Okay, now this program is SO easy to set up, even a degenerate like a 
Cleveland Browns fan could run it. Okay, copy all the files to a disk ro a 
directory on your hard drive, and from the command line, type:

        SUPERD

        Now Super Dial will run it's built in set-up program and ask you a few 
questions. Make sure that you fill out each question correctly, and you've 
completed them you will be returned to DOS. Now re-run Super Dial (with the 
command 'SUPERD') and the main program will load.
        The menu options are very straight-forward and shouldn't cause any 
problems. To re-configure after the initial first-run just delete the file 
SUPERD.CFG from your disk, and follow the instructions above.

 :::::::
::Hints::
 :::::::

        The program is easy to use and contains the few needed features of a war 
dialer. 
        To stop a dialing sequence, just press ESCape and you will be taken  to 
the main menu.

 :::::::::::::::::::
::New Version Plans::
 :::::::::::::::::::

        Version 2.00 

        WATS Extension code breaker for Tone and Pulse phone lines
        War Dialing Patterns:
                Sequential
                Scrambled
                Random
                User Made
        ANSI.SYS support for Mini Terminal
        Downloading support through DSZ.COM
        User Definable
                Parity
                Stop Bits
                Word Length
        Full screen menu driving.

        Version 2.50 (Summer 1991)

        Multiple ports for both wardialing and WATS hacking at once !
        On line door support for Searchlight BBS as a repeater door.
        Mouse Support


        I, Evan Anderson, take NO responsibility for any damages caused by the 
use or misuse of this program.

        Super Dial 1.03 was compiled with Quick Basic 4.50...


        Thanks,

        Evan Anderson....


