DUMPSTER DIVING

COPYRIGHT (C) 1991 BY FULL DISCLOSURE. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

In light of the recent debates regarding the various activities of the 
``hacking community'' and it various methods of collecting and distributing 
information the following legal opinion by the Detroit, Michigan Police 
Department is presented to give some insight on the activity refered to as 
``Dumpster Diving.''

Not only does this opinion show that such an activity can be legal but that 
it is not exclusive to the hackers, but is a investigative procedure of law 
enforcement agencies:

SEARCH OF ABANDONED REFUSE

``A recent Michigan Court of Appeals decision concerns searches of rubbish 
and garbage without a search warrant.  Although courts in other states have 
addressed the legality of such searches, no Michigan appellate court has ever 
been confronted with the question.

``People v Richard Whotte aka Richard Breathour

``QUESTION: Is it ever legal to search rubbish and refuse for evidence if the 
rubbish or refuse has not been set out for or picked up by trash collectors 
if I do not first obtain a search warrant?

``ANSWER: Such searches without search warrants are permissible if they meet 
the standards listed in People v Whotte.

``DISCUSSION:

``In People v Whotte, Mich App (Feb 1982), a Grosse Pointe Park detective was 
investigating a hold-up of a bar when he had occasion to speak to a possible 
subject at a two-family apartment. The detective noted that there was 
domestic rubbish scattered in the backyard of a two-family flat and it 
appeared that dogs, cats, or other animals had strewn the litter about the 
yard in searching for foodstuffs.  The detective noted credit card receipts 
within the refuse in the name of the suspect. The next day, the detective 
returned, re-examined the credit card receipts, and looked inside one of the 
torn open bags in the yard, finding the suspect's wedding license and a 
wallet of one of the victims. This information was elicited in testimony at 
the circuit court. Upon this and other evidence, defendant was found guilty 
and eventually appealed his conviction, unsuccessfully.

``Other states have addressed the issue of whether or not a search warrant is 
needed to examine trash and have generally decided that such searches are 
legal if the garbage has been left at a spot where the garbage is collected 
by the collection service or if the garbage has lost its identity by being 
mingled with other people's trash. The Michigan Court of Appeals has adopted 
the Alaska rule, which attempts to determine if the search violates the trash 
owner's reasonable expectations of privacy. That determination is made 
considering these factors:

``1. Where the trash is located;

``2. Whether the dwelling is a multiple or single family unit;

``3. Who recovered the trash;

``4. Where the search of the trash takes place.

``Based on these standards, a search warrant is probably needed if the 
rubbish is stored immediately outside a rear door of a single family dwelling 
and only placed outside the back fence on trash collection day. However, 
trash thrown onto a common heap in the backyard of a large apartment building 
where roaming dogs strew it about would not require a warrant. Further, 
although the test might indicate otherwise, trial courts will probably not 
allow searches of trash inside of buildings even if there has been indication 
of intent to abandon the trash.

``The test announced in this new case adopts a common sense approach as to 
whether the trash has been abandoned or just removed from inside the house to 
a more convenient location. Common sense would also dictate, though, that in 
questionable circumstances, discretion favors obtaining a search warrant. 
This case appears to be the state of the law in Michigan today, but is 
subject to reversal by a superior court.

``Members having questions about this case are requested to contact the Legal 
Advisor Unit at Centrex 4-4426 or Police Dial 346. 

The above is reprinted from Full Disclosure Newspaper. Subscribe today and 
get interesting articles like the above, plus more... pictures, graphics, 
advertisement, and more articles. Full Disclosure is your source for 
information on the leading edge of surveillance technology. Print the 
following form, or supply the information on a plain piece of paper:

----

Please start my subscription to Full Disclosure for:

[ ] Sample issue, $2.00

[ ] 12 issue subscription, $18.00

[ ] 24 issue subscription, $29.95
     With 24 issue susbcription include free one of the following:
         [ ] Directory of Electronic Surveillance Equipment Suppliers
         [ ] Citizen's Guide on How to Use the Freedom of Info/Privacy Acts
         [ ] Maximizing PC Performance

Also available separately:

[ ] Directory of Electronic Surveillance Equipment Suppliers, $6.00

[ ] Citizen's Guide on How to Use the Freedom of Info/Privacy Acts, $5.00

[ ] Maximizing PC Performance, $6.00

    Illinois residences, add 6.5% sales tax on above 3 items.

Enclosed is payment in the form of:

[ ] Check/Money order, [ ] Visa, [ ] Mastercard

Card no:___________________________________ Exp date:_______

Signature:__________________________________________________

Phone:______________________________________________________
(required for credit card orders)

My name/address:

Name:_______________________________________________________

Street:_____________________________________________________

City/State/Zip:_____________________________________________

Return to: Full Disclosure, Box 903, Libertyville, Illinois 60048



