     This is a FAST ACCESS VERSION of a RUTGERS COOPERATIVE 
EXTENSION FACT SHEET.  Because of the mode of transmission it 
is possible that certain graphics intended to be included with 
the original FACT SHEET have been deleted.  You can obtain the 
complete FACT SHEET from any county office of RUTGERS 
COOPERATIVE EXTENSION.

              HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS IN YOUR HOME:
                   PROPER USE AND DISPOSAL

                  Theodore B. Shelton, Ph.D.
           Specialist in Water Resources Management

                      Michael T. Olohan
                Public Information Coordinator
               Navesink River Watershed Project


WHAT IS A HAZARDOUS HOUSEHOLD PRODUCT?

     The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
considers a substance hazardous if it can catch fire, if it 
can react or explode when mixed with other substances, if it 
is corrosive, or if it is toxic.  Each of these categories is 
explained in its regulations.  EPA has designated 400 specific 
substances to be hazardous.

     EPA estimates that the average household contains between 
3 and 10 gallons of hazardous chemicals.  Even improper 
disposal of such small amounts of hazardous wastes can make an 
underground water source unusable for decades if the 
contamination is not prevented.

HOW SHOULD YOU HANDLE HOUSEHOLD CHEMICALS?

     Generally, most household products should never be 
disposed of by dumping into a sink, toilet, street drain, or 
roadway.  Your household plumbing system usually leads to a 
municipal wastewater treatment plant or a septic tank 
wastewater disposal system.  However, neither is designed to 
remove hazardous chemicals completely from wastewater.  You 
should also be aware that storm sewers (street drains) usually 
flow directly into nearby streams or rivers without treatment, 
leading to direct pollution of the waterways.  Homeowners 
should reduce the purchase of products containing hazardous 
chemicals and consider nontoxic alternatives to prevent 
potential disposal, poisoning, and water pollution problems.

WHAT DISPOSAL OPTIONS DO YOU HAVE?

     The following list offers advice for using and disposing 
of most hazardous products in your home and, where possible, 
it proposes alternatives.  The recommendations listed apply to 
quantities less than 1 quart.  Your local health department, 
county health department, or State Department of Environmental 
Protection (NJDEP) Hazardous Waste Advisement Program should 
be consulted for larger quantities.  In all cases, proper 
disposal at a local hazardous waste collection center or 
program or recycling, is preferred. 

(T)=TRASH - This symbol identifies products that should never 
be poured down a drain, but can be safely disposed of by 
placing in the garbage.  Make sure products are sealed or 
capped to prevent leakage.

(H)=HOLD - This symbol identifies hazardous products that must 
be held for disposal at a local collection center or program 
or given to a hazardous waste disposal contractor.  (Even 
empty containers of these products should be handled in these 
ways.)  For more information, contact NJDEP Hazardous Waste 
Advisement Program at 609-292-8341.

(R)=RECYCLE - This symbol identifies products that can or 
should be recycled.  Take these products to the recycling 
program in your area.  If no recycling program exists, 
encourage local officials to start one.  For more information, 
contact the NJDEP Office of Recycling at 609-292-0331.

HAZARDOUS HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS

     (H) OVEN, DRAIN, AND TOILET CLEANERS - Most of these 
products are corrosive and poisonous.  Follow directions 
carefully, exchange unused portions to neighbors and friends 
to use instead of discarding.  An alternative to oven cleaners 
is baking soda and water.  Instead of chemical drain cleaners, 
you might use a metal snake to clear pipes.  Instead of toilet 
cleaners, use a toilet brush and baking soda or a mild 
detergent.

     (H) FURNITURE POLISH, FLOOR POLISH - Certain brands are 
flammable.  Offer unused quantities to friends and neighbors.  
Do not pour down drains.  Do not dispose of these substances 
in normal trash.

     (T) OLD MEDICINES - Many products are hazardous.  Some 
medicines can be disposed of with regular trash.  Contact your 
local health department or New Jersey Department of 
Environmental Protection Hazardous Waste Advisement Program at 
609-292-8341 for more information.

     (T) DISINFECTANTS - These products are usually corrosive 
and toxic.  Do not dispose of down drains.  Fully use these 
products or recycle unused portions by exchanging them with 
friends or neighbors.

     (H) RUG AND UPHOLSTERY CLEANERS - These products are 
irritants, and are corrosive and toxic.  Do not dispose of 
these substances with regular garbage.  These products might 
be exchanged with a neighbor.

     (H) BLEACH CLEANERS - Products containing bleach are 
strong oxidizers and are corrosive.  Fully use these products 
or exchange them with neighbors or friends.  Do not dispose of 
with regular trash.

GARAGE AND WORKSHOP CHEMICALS

     (H)(R) USED MOTOR OIL, BATTERY ACID, DIESEL FUEL, FUEL 
OIL, GASOLINE, KEROSENE, PAINT BRUSH CLEANER WITH SOLVENT, 
PAINT THINNER, TURPENTINE - These products are toxic, 
flammable, and corrosive.  Do not dispose of these substances 
in the sink, toilet, street drain, or roadway.  In New Jersey, 
service stations, retail outlets, and reinspection stations 
that sell motor oil must accept up to 5 gallons of used motor 
oil for recycling.  Other products should be saved for 
disposal at local collection centers.

     (S) ANTIFREEZE, AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION FLUID, BRAKE 
FLUID, CAR WAX WITH SOLVENT, OTHER OILS, GLUE, OIL-BASED 
PAINT, PAINT STRIPPER, PRIMER, RUST REMOVER, VARNISH, WOOD 
PRESERVATIVE - These products are toxic, corrosive, and/or 
flammable.  Do not dispose of these substances in the sink, 
toilet, street drain, or roadway.  If possible, exchange or 
save for local collection centers.

     (T)(R) METAL POLISH WITH SOLVENT, PAINT BRUSH CLEANER 
WITH TSP (TRISODIUM PHOSPHATE), WATER-BASED GLUE, LATEX PAINT, 
PAINT STRIPPER (lye base) - These products are toxic.  
Exchange with neighbors.  Recycle is possible or seal tightly 
and discard with regular trash.

CHEMICALS USED OUTDOORS

     (H) PESTICIDES, HERBICIDES, INSECTICIDES, FUNGICIDES - 
Toxic.  Pesticide is usually a catch-all term for all types of 
lawn, garden, and agricultural chemicals.  Use only according 
to label or recommendations of an agricultural agent in the 
Rutgers Cooperative Extension office in your county.  
Triple-rinse containers and reuse rinse water as a 
full-strength pesticide.  Garden pesticide alternatives 
include keeping your garden weed-free by handpulling, 
importing predators, or using insecticidal soap.  Consult the 
Rutgers Cooperative Extension office in your county for 
specific agricultural and garden pesticide recommendations.

     (H) POOL CHEMICALS - In addition to being corrosive and 
toxic, these products are strong oxidizers and pose a fire and 
explosive hazard.  NEVER DISPOSE of pool chemicals with 
household trash.  Store safely until they can be fully used or 
exchanged with neighbors.


OTHER HAZARDOUS HOME PRODUCTS

     (H)(R) HOBBY CHEMICALS (CRAFTS, PHOTOGRAPHY, LABS) - 
These can be irritants, and are often corrosive, toxic, and 
flammable.  Do not dispose of these substances.  These 
chemicals should be safely stored in original containers.  
NEVER pour down drains.

     (H) ARTISTS' PAINTS, MEDIUMS, ADHESIVES - These can be 
irritants, and are often toxic and flammable.  Work area 
should be well ventilated.  Store these containers until they 
can be safely disposed of.

For more information on hazardous household chemicals:

1) Household Hazardous Waste: Solving the Disposal Dilemma.  
Gina Purin, Golden Health Empire Health Planning Center, 2100 
21st Street, Sacramento, CA 95818.

2) Nontoxic and Natural: How to Avoid Dangerous Everyday 
Products and Buy or Make Safe Ones.  Debra Lynn Dadd.  
Nontoxic Lifestyles Inc., Box 210019, San Francisco, CA 94121.

* Information in this reference appears with the understanding 
that no discrimination is intended and no endorsement by 
RUTGERS COOPERATIVE EXTENSION is implied.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              