X-15, WORLD'S FIRST HYPERSONIC RESEARCH AIRCRAFT


     The X-15 was a small rocket-powered aircraft, 50 feet long 
with a wingspan of 22 feet.  It had a conventional fuselage, but 
an unusual wedge-shaped vertical tail, thin stubby wings and 
unique side fairings that extended along the fuselage.  The X-15 
weighed about 14,000 pounds empty and approximately 34,000 pounds 
at launch.  The rocket engine, which was controlled by the pilot, 
was capable of developing 60,000 pounds of thrust.

     The X-15 research aircraft was developed to provide inflight 
information and data on aero-thermodynamics, aerodynamics, 
structures, flight controls and the physiological aspects of 
high-speed, high-altitude flight.  A follow-on program utilized 
the aircraft as a testbed to carry various scientific experiments 
beyond the Earth's atmosphere on a repeated basis.

     For flight in the dense air of the usable atmosphere, the X-
15 utilized conventional aerodynamic controls.  For flight 
outside of the appreciable Earth's atmosphere, the X-15 used a 
ballistic control system.  Eight hydrogen peroxide thrust 
rockets, located on the nose of the aircraft controlled pitch and 
yaw. Four other rockets were located on the wings for roll 
control.

     Because of the rapid fuel consumption, the X-15 was air-
launched from under the wing of a B-52 aircraft at 45,000 feet at 
a speed of about 500 miles per hour.  Depending on the mission 
and engine throttle setting, the rocket engine provided thrust 
for the first 80 to 120 seconds of flight.  The remainder of the 
normal 10-11 minute flight was powerless and ended with a 200 
mile-per-hour glide landing.  

     Usually, one of two types of X-15 flight profiles were 
flown:  a high-altitude flight plan that called for the pilot to 
climb steeply after launch or a speed profile that called for the 
pilot to push over and maintain a level altitude.  First flown 
June 8, 1959, the three X-15 aircraft made 199 powered flights, 
concluding with the last flight on Oct. 24, 1968.  Flight 
maximums of 354,200 feet in altitude and a speed of 4,520 miles 
per hour were obtained.

     The airframe manufacturer was North American Rockwell, 
Inc.  Thiokol Chemical Corp. manufactured the power plant.  The 
program was a joint NASA-USAF-USN effort.
     
     Three X-15 aircraft were built.  The number 1 aircraft now 
is displayed in the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum, 
Washington, D.C.  Aircraft number 2 is on display at the Air 
Force Museum at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.  The third 
aircraft was destroyed in a fatal accident in November 1967.

     Total cost of the X-15 program, including development of the 
three aircraft, was about $300 million.

	- end -


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Salted Slug Systems                      Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           408-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
