
      COMPUTER ANALYSIS AND PROOFS THAT GOD, THE CREATOR OF ALL
      THINGS, DID (IN FACT) WRITE THE 66 BOOKS OF THE HOLY BIBLE

                               PREFACE

     "Do not deceive yourselves.  If any one of you thinks he is wise
by the standards of this age, he should become a 'fool' so that he may
become wise.  For the wisdom of this world is foolishness in God's
sight.  As it is written: "He catches the wise in their craftiness";
and again, "The Lord knows that the thoughts of the wise are futile."
(1 Corinthians 18-20)

.   This being the fourth printing of this report, we have modified the
content by the addition of much more information that we have been
able to develop through the past few years.  You will now find the
first phenomena that was discovered that "led" us to the full Bible
discovery.  We have also developed phenomena that shows that God
selected the books of the Books of the Bible - not man as claimed by
many.
     The original report was written solely as a "FACT SHEET" to be
given to agnostic or atheist "intellectuals" by believers in the Lord
Jesus Christ to literally show in the "scientific" methods of proof
that the arguments they wish to make with believers are not with the
believers, but are, IN  FACT, with the AUTHOR of the BIBLE - GOD.  It
was designed to stop "attacks" on believers who believe on faith and
do not have the "intellectual" ability to discuss matters with
intellectuals who have presuppositions that there is not (or there may
not be) a God.
     We have directed copies of the report to over 500 of the best
known centers for agnostic or atheist beliefs, including universities
or centers of learning conducted by Non-Christian organizations.  We
issued this challenge: "Disprove the report and its data OR produce
any other text written by men as the scribes, that will contain any of
the same  phenomena!"  The ONLY condition we placed is that the
phenomena MUST be from inherent factors of the language and not
"contrived" by manipulation.  By using a formula, the very word
COMPUTER can be shown to have a value of 666, which is the number of
the final ANTI-CHRIST; however, such methods are DESIGNED to produce
this result and are not an "inherent" feature of the English language.
     Although we have a great deal of phenomena discovered, we will
concentrate on the Number SEVEN, as this is the number attributed to
God.  (Created the earth in SEVEN days, etc.)  In this document, you
will read of FACTS and PROOFS of God being the AUTHOR of the BIBLE. 
By using the same basic phenomena, based on the FACT that GOD IS THE
SAME YESTERDAY, TODAY AND TOMORROW, (Hebrews 13:8) you may make
comparisons of other writings alleged to be God's Scripture.

             --------------------------------------------

     In this age, there seem to be many "intellectuals" both in the
Christian community and outside it that disclaim the inspiration of
the Bible by God.  Denominations, sects and cults are coming into
being on a daily basis that attempt to dehumanize Jesus or to humanize
God, and in most cases, attempt to make the Bible into GOD.  No errors
have been found by this organization, and all alleged errors have been
shown, in context, to be non-existent upon careful investigation.  In
most cases, the believer has been confronted with the claim that
"there is no scientific proof" of the Bible.  The definition of
"Scientific" means that the evidence can be reproduced under
laboratory conditions.  You will find that all evidence presented will
qualify as "Scientific" in the sense that it can be repeated under
such conditions, and we invite such scrutiny.  In addition, the
sciences of archaeology, astronomy, physics, Astro-physics or
mathematics all have produced evidence of the correctness of the Bible
- even when the Bible was contradictory to the "known" science of a
particular period of time.
     We have discovered additional collaboration of our findings in the
work of one Dr. Ivan Panin, who spent his life in bible research.  We
deeply admire the effort and results of Dr. Panin, and dedicate this
writing to his memory and to the Glory of our mutual Savior, Jesus
Christ.
     It should be mentioned that Dr. Panin issued much the same
challenge we issued in our preface, back in 1940.  No one ever took up
that challenge, and we still await the first challenge after three
years....
     It is our hope and prayer that this document will be used to make
it evident to a skeptic, whether they be "intellectual" or "agnostic"
or "atheist" or a combination, that the God known in a personal
relationship sense by those who have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior,
is the God of Nature, God of the Universe, and by proofs evident in
this document, God of the Bible.  We propose this "logic flow":

1. If GOD inspired the scriptures, then they cannot be anything other
than TRUTH.

2. If they are TRUTH then one of the TRUTHS is that JESUS CHRIST IS
THE ONLY WAY BY WHICH ANY HUMAN MAY COME TO GOD, and:
     a. God is the same - yesterday, today, and tomorrow
     b. God is the "I AM" of the Bible and did not exist in any form
other than as GOD, is the ONLY GOD in existence, and HE DOES NOT
PERMIT ANY OTHER GODS TO EXIST IN REALITY.  (Mankind seems to make
gods out of anything they wish.)

3. That ANY teachings that ADD or SUBTRACT from the 66 books of the
Bible are NOT OF GOD, THE AUTHOR of these 66 books.  Jesus Christ
commanded that "Not one jot or tittle be added or removed" from the
Scriptures until His coming, again.  Jesus and the angels at Pentecost
clearly made it known that Jesus would return EXACTLY as He left -
BODILY and FROM THE HEAVENS!

           SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE OF THE DIVINE INSPIRATION OF
                              THE BIBLE

     In discussing the matter of the evidence being presented in this
report, it is imperative that we provide an explanation of the
inherent factors of the HEBREW, ARAMAIC and GREEK languages.  These
languages were unique in that they did not have a set of characters to
represent numbers such as our present 1,2,3, etc.  Instead, the Hebrew
language made use of the letters of the alphabet; so that the first
letter of the alphabet stood for 1, the second for 2, the third for 3,
etc., until the 11th letter represented 20, the twelfth letter 30,
etc. through 800. (The Greek language also had this particular
feature).  Thus each letter had a numeric value.  In this manner, each
word can be given a value by adding the cumulative total value of each
of its letters.  Additionally, each character was assigned a PLACE
value.  If we were to apply the same factors to the English language
by ignoring numerical characters, we would do it like this:

                             PLACE VALUES

          1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15
          A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J   K   L   M   N   O
          1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  20  30  40  50  60

                            NUMERIC VALUE

     The difficulty in translating the Scriptures, due in part to these
numeric methods, was also due to the fact that these languages did not
have punctuation.  Sentences were run together without spacing,
commas, or any other separation.  In English this would be done in
this manner:

     THISISASAMPLESENTENCEINTHEFORMFORGREEKARAMICANDHEBREW

     To break this down, we read the above sentence thus:

     THIS IS A SAMPLE SENTENCE IN THE FORM FOR GREEK, ARAMAIC AND
HEBREW.

     Using the numeric factors of the languages, we note the chart
above that the first ten letters PLACE values and NUMERIC values are
the same.  At the eleventh letter the Numeric value of each letter
begins to increase by ten, until the value of 100 is reached, and then
each letter would be increased by 100.  In the Greek language, there
are 22 characters.  The last character would have a place value of 22,
and a numeric value of 400.  To show an example of this in English, we
would proceed thus:

     THISISASAMPLESENTENCEWITHTHENUMBEROFKASHOWN

     THIS IS A SAMPLE SENTENCE WITH THE NUMBER OF KA SHOWN

     K = 11th letter with Numeric Value of 20
     A = 1st letter with Numeric Value of 1
     (or to say it where we can understand it)

     THIS IS A SAMPLE SENTENCE WITH THE NUMBER OF 21 SHOWN

     Now that we have explained the "difficulties" of these languages,
we will now proceed with the "narration" of the first lead we received
in our investigation to ascertain if there was any basis for
"scientifically" proving the Bible.

            GENESIS 1:1 COMPUTER VERIFICATION OF A MIRACLE

     The Bible begins with "IN THE BEGINNING GOD CREATED THE HEAVENS
AND THE EARTH".  The number of words in the original Hebrew (which was
the language of the Old Testament) is SEVEN words.
     These SEVEN words have 28 letters (4x7).  These 28 letters are
divided like this: The first three words (containing the subject and
predicate of the sentence - "In the beginning God created" -) have 14
letters (2x7); the last four words (containing the object of the
sentence - "the heavens and the earth" -) also have 14 letters (2x7). 
The last four words are thus subdivided: The fourth and fifth words
(Containing one object - "the heavens" -) have SEVEN letters (7); the
sixth and SEVENth words (containing the second object - "and the
earth" -) also have SEVEN letters (7).  In relation to the importance
of the words themselves, the 28 letters are thus divided: The three
leading words GOD the subject, heaven and earth the two objects, have
14 letters (2x7).
     The numeric value of the first, middle, and last letters of this
sentence is 133 (19x7), while the numeric value of the first and last
letters of all seven words in this verse is 1393 (199x7).  The first
and last letters of the first and last words have 497 (71x7); the
remaining words (between the first and last) have 896
(2x2x2x2x2x2x2x7).  We break this amount down due to the factors being
SEVEN and TWO taken as a factor SEVEN times.  The three important
nouns, God, heaven, and earth, have 14 letters (2x7).  The numeric
value is 777 (111x7).  The one verb, created, has 203 (29x7).
     In this verse of only SEVEN words there are some repetitions.  The
untranslatable particle ETH occurs twice and the article THE also
occurs twice.  The numeric value of these repetitions is 406 (58x7).
     This whole sequence should be referenced through Hebrews 13:8
where it says that God is the "same yesterday, today and tomorrow" and
where God Himself answers Moses and tells Moses that He is the "I AM",
meaning that he was before all things and will be forever the same. 
We then conclude that: (1) If God is the same at all times and, by His
own word, does not change, then the numeric phenomena, briefly shown
above, should be a measure of whether God wrote the remainder of
Genesis, the Books of Exodus, Jonah, or any other Old Testament phrase
or book and, (2) It would also hold true for the New Testament (even
though the New Testament was written in Greek) in IDENTICAL patterns.
Finally, (3) We can also use the progressions of numerics as a test of
other texts that have been claimed to be revelations from God.  If the
language of the ORIGINAL text is not Greek, Hebrew, or Aramaic /
Chaldean, then sufficient kinds of numeric structures will be evident
in as much as the language will permit.  We ask that you take any of
these texts and test them against these structures.  If they contain
any multiples of the numerics shown here, we would like to have you
communicate with us by directing a copy of the text, source of the
text, and your name, address, and phone number.
     Now, with this "key" provided us in Genesis 1:1, we will proceeded
to analyze the whole Bible.  Keep in mind that there are in excess of
three million words, or twenty million characters, in the 66 books of
the Bible.  Also keep in mind that the "evidence" we are about to
present would be null and void, in most cases, if EVEN ONE CHARACTER
WERE DELETED, CHANGED OR ADDED!
     The results of our complete Bible investigation and analysis are
thus:

1. The NUMBER of WORDS in the VOCABULARY will divide evenly by SEVEN.

2. The NUMBER of WORDS that begin with a vowel will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

3. The NUMBER of WORDS that begin with a consonant will divide evenly
by SEVEN.

4. The NUMBER of WORDS that begin with each letter of the language's
alphabet will divide evenly by SEVEN.

5. The NUMBER of WORDS that occur more than once will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

6. The NUMBER of WORDS that occur only once will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

7. The NUMBER of WORDS that occur in only one form will divide evenly
by SEVEN.

8. The NUMBER of WORDS that occur in more than one form will divide
evenly by SEVEN.

9. The NUMBER of WORDS that are nouns will divide evenly by SEVEN. ***

10. The NUMBER of WORDS that are not nouns will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

11. The NUMBER of LETTERS in the vocabulary will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

12. The NUMBER of LETTERS that are vowels will divide evenly by SEVEN.

13. The NUMBER of LETTERS that are consonants will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

14. The NUMBER of PROPER NAMES will divide evenly by SEVEN.

15. The NUMBER of MALE PROPER NAMES will divide evenly by SEVEN.

16. The NUMBER of FEMALE PROPER NAMES will divide evenly by SEVEN.

17. The TOTAL NUMERIC VALUE OF ALL THE WORDS will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

18. The NUMERIC VALUE OF THE VARIOUS FORMS in which the words occur
will divide evenly by SEVEN.

19. The NUMBER OF WORDS THAT ARE FOUND IN ONLY ONE BOOK OF THE BIBLE
will divide evenly by SEVEN.

20. The NUMBER OF PROMISES FOUND in the BIBLE will divide evenly by
SEVEN.

21. The NUMBER OF DISPENSATION PERIODS is SEVEN.

22. The NUMBER OF GENERATIONS FROM ABRAHAM TO JESUS CHRIST will divide
evenly by SEVEN.

23. The BOOK OF REVELATION outlines SEVEN JUDGMENTS that will be made
on the Earth and its Peoples.

24. The BOOK OF REVELATION outlines SEVEN PLAGUES that will be made on
the Earth and its Peoples.

     One of the above phenomena is followed by several asterisks (*). 
The notation is made because we became unable to compute the
mathematical probabilities AT THAT PHENOMENA.  (Note how many came
after that!!!).  We had to suspend our investigation until we could
provide some basis of relating the probabilities, with some term that
could convey the extent of the matter.  Upon conferring with the math
department of Stanford University, we were advised that there is a
term called a Google (some spellings show Gugle) which is ONE BILLION
TO THE BILLIONTH POWER!  The term GOOGLEPLEX, then, is a GOOGLE to the
power of GOOGLE, and this is what is reached at the occurrence we have
noted with the asterisk!  A GOOGLE amount of years can be referenced
by stating that if we had a mountain the size of Mount Everest that
was solid DIAMOND, and we allowed a bird to come ONCE A YEAR and MAKE
ONE PECK against this mountain, IT WOULD TAKE A GOOGLE OF YEARS TO
ERODE THAT MOUNTAIN TO SEA LEVEL!
     We wish to restress the fact that if EVEN ONE CHARACTER was
changed, ADDED, or SUBTRACTED to the 66  books, then most of the above
results would not have been produced!  To state that God is far above
man in intelligence is so much an understatement that we even hesitate
to make such a mention; However, there always seems to be someone that
does not realize the extent of these proofs as shown.
     Some of the proofs are truly unique; such as, the NUMBER OF MALE
PROPER NAMES could not hold true UNLESS Moses is mentioned ONLY ONE
TIME in the Book of Revelation!
     The issue of BIBLE ERRANCY is put to rest by these proofs.  God is
shown to have dictated EACH AND EVERY CHARACTER of the Bible, and it
is inconceivable that God can make an error.
     The issue of CONSPIRACY is put to rest by showing that ONLY GOD
could have put the characters together over fifteen hundred years,
through three different languages, and through use of several men from
widely differing backgrounds.  Some Epistles were written at a single
sitting, and within a matter of minutes.  The number of hours it would
have taken for even the writers that lived in the same time frame to
get together and CONSPIRE to produce these harmonic features is beyond
any belief.  It is to be noted that THE ONLY POSSIBLE WAY FOR THE
WRITERS TO WRITE THEIR BOOKS, AND HAVE THE PHENOMENA OF HAVING WORDS
THAT ONLY THEY USED, would have required that each and every one of
them write their book LAST!

                             TRANSLATIONS
                                 and
              BIBLES OF LESS THAN OR MORE THAN 66 BOOKS

     Although the phenomena we discovered only occur in the original
(Please refer to this subject in the book EVIDENCE THAT DEMANDS A
VERDICT by Josh McDowell, who explains the ability to have "original"
Scriptures far better than we could), we feel it necessary to state
that Translations DO NOT CONTAIN many of the phenomena.  The doctrines
of the  Bible, however, do hold consistent, and should be the most
important feature of any translation.  The phenomena must occur in a
natural feature of the language in which it was written, and
translations are unable to maintain such phenomena.
     An impressive feature, and one that caused us great difficulty, is
that by the addition of the Apocryphal books, the phenomena that occur
in the Bible as a WHOLE is thwarted.  Not one of the phenomena,
(number of Proper Names, Number of Words in Alphabet, etc.) remains
when these books are considered, AND not one of these books contains
ANY phenomena of any ascertainable sort!  It is our opinion that this
clearly refutes any claim by any religion, that these books are from
God.  It is our contention that the fact that these books do not
contain even ONE of the phenomena, is sufficient evidence that they
should not be considered Scripture.
     As for the "revisions" made by the Mormon church or by Jehovah's
Witnesses, we can only state that these changes eliminate the
phenomena, again a basis for rejection of their claims on a "correct"
version.
     As we completed these investigations, we then focused our
attention on the writings alleged to be "additional" Scriptures, such
as the Book of Mormon, Pearl of Great Price, Koran, Doctrine and
Covenants of the Mormon Church, and Commandments of the Mormon church,
as well as writings from Moses David of the Children of God, Mary
Baker Eddy of Christian Science, and many, many others.
      IN EACH AND EVERY CASE, THE ALLEGED "SCRIPTURES" FAILED ON EVERY
POSSIBLE PHENOMENA.  We used the language that the claimed writings
were in and looked for phenomena that could be utilized by God within
those languages.  For English, we felt that phenomena of Number of
letters or words in the alphabet, consonants and vowels, number of
proper names, etc. could be found if from God.  Any phenomena found
was sporadic, not consistent, and therefore not of God.
     For us, and those who wish to accept such, we felt that this was
sufficient proof that these religions claiming guidance from God,
were, at best, being deceived by as good a counterfeit as man or Satan
could devise.
     In the claims of most non-Christian groups, one consistent
statement is that the 66 books of the Bible are either (1) not correct
or (2) not complete.  We feel that the issue of correctness is totally
settled in our proofs and results.  As far as the number of books
being incorrect or incomplete, we look to the following:

                    COMPUTER ANALYSIS OF THE ORDER
                                 AND
                     NUMBER OF BOOKS OF THE BIBLE

     The original sequence of the books of the Bible differ
somewhat from the sequence that is presently found in the English
Bible. The original text had the following order:

 1. Genesis     23. Zephaniah     45. James
 2. Exodus      24. Haggai        46. 1 Peter
 3. Leviticus   25. Zechariah     47. 2 Peter
 4. Numbers     26. Malachi       48. 1 John
 5. Deuteronomy 27. Psalms        49. 2 John
 6. Joshua      28. Proverbs      50. 3 John
 7. Judges      29. Job           51. Jude
 8. 1 Samuel    30. Song of Songs 52. Romans
 9. 2 Samuel    31. Ruth          53. 1 Corinthians
 10. 1 Kings    32. Lamentations  54. 2 Corinthians
 11. 2 Kings    33. Ecclesiastes  55. Galatians
 12. Isaiah     34. Esther        56. Ephesians
 13. Jeremiah   35. Daniel        57. Phillipians
 14. Ezekial    36. Ezra          58. Collosians
 15. Hosea      37. Nehemiah      59. 1 Thessalonians
 16. Joel       38. 1 Chronicles  60. 2 Thessalonians
 17. Amos       39. 2 Chronicles  61. Hebrews
 18. Obadiah    40. Matthew       62. 1 Timothy
 19. Jonah      41. Mark          63. 2 Timothy
 20. Micah      42. Luke          64. Titus
 21. Naham      43. John          65. Philemon
 22. Habakuk    44. Acts          66. Revelation

     (Original means the Oldest or most original that were known to the
world, at this time.)
     Some of the books assign themselves, either totally or in part to
a particular scribe's name, while others are anonymous.  The books
which reveal (in part or totally) the scribe's identity are:

     Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy ascribe themselves to
Moses, and are ascribed to Moses in other books of the Bible.  Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Ezekiel and the 12 minor Prophets ascribe themselves to the
scribes whose name the book bears.  Psalms is ascribed to David. 
Proverbs and Song of Solomon ascribe themselves to Solomon, and
Ecclesiastes ascribes itself only to the "son of David" which most
believe to be Solomon.  Daniel, Ezra and Nehemiah ascribe themselves
to these respective scribes.  James, 1 and 2 Peter, and Jude bear the
names of their respective scribe.  The Epistles of Paul ascribe
themselves, with the exception of Hebrews, to Paul.  Revelation
ascribes itself to John.
     Moses has 4, Solomon 3, Peter 2, Paul 13, and the other identified
scribes have one book each.
     The anonymous books, therefore, are: Genesis, Joshua, Judges, 1
and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, Job, Ruth, Lamentations, Esther, 1 and 2
Chronicles, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, 2 and 3 John, and
Hebrews.

     The number 66 is 6 -11's (Feature  1).  The anonymous books are 22
or 2-11's.  The non-anonymous books are 44 or 4-11's (Feature 2).  Of
these 44, 22 (or 2-11's) belong to writers of more than one book and
22 (again 2-11's) belong to writers of only one book (Feature 3).  The
sum of the 66 numbers totals 2,211 or 201-11's.  We can divide this
number in this manner: The 22 books of the writers of more than one
book have 946 (or 86-11's), while the other 44 have 1,265 (or 115-
11's) (Feature 4).

     Of the 66 books, 21 are Epistles.  Their numbers are (James to
Philemon or 45 to 65).  The sum 2,21 for the 66 books can be divided
between Epistles and Non-Epistles.  The Epistles have 1,155 (or 105-
11's) and the non-epistles have 1,056 (or 96-11's) (Feature 5).
     Moses, David, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea, Joel and Daniel are
expressly quoted in the New Testament.  The number of their respective
books are 2,3,4,5,12,13,15,16,27,35.  The total sum of these books is
(Feature 6) 132 (or 12-11's).

     The Numeric Values of the Bible Writer's names are:

       Moses      345  Isaiah     401   Jeremiah   271
       Hosea      381  Joel       47    Amos       176
       Jonah      71   Micah      75    Naham      104
       Zephaniah  235  Zechariah  242   Malachi    101
       Solomon    375  Daniel     95    Ezra       278
       James      833  Haggai     21    Peter      755
       Paul       781  John       781   John      1069
       Ezekiel    156  Obadiah    91    Habbakuk   216
       David      14   Nehemiah   113   Jude       685

     The total sum of these is 7,931  -  which is 11 X 7 X  103.  This
can also be expressed as 721-11's, while the sum of the factors 7, 11,
and 103 is 121 or 11-11's  (Features 7 and 8).

     There may be some that may claim that this could be accidental or
by design.  That the number of books in the Bible should be a multiple
of 11 could possibly be accidental.  However, since only every 11th
number is a  multiple of 11, then THE CHANCE OF ACCIDENT IS 1 IN 11!

     That this number can be divided between anonymous and  non-
anonymous books in such a manner as to be multiples of 11 could also
be an accident.  However, THE CHANCE IS 1 IN 11 TIMES 11 or ONE CHANCE
IN 121!

     That this number can be divided between the non- anonymous by 11's
among the authors of only one book and those of more than one book
could also be accidental.  However, the chance for it being accident
is ONE IN 11 TIMES 11 TIMES 11 or ONE CHANCE IN 1,331.

     If we carry out the progressions through the eight occurrences
proven above, we concede that each one could be accidental.  However,
the chance for them ALL being so becomes ONE CHANCE IN 11 TO THE
EIGHTH POWER or ONE IN 214,358,881!

     Using our pencil and a lot more paper, we find:

     The sum of the numeric values of the 26 authors named as Biblical
writers which was shown above as 7931 is a multiple of seven (Feature
9) as well as eleven.  The sums of the numeric  values of the 26
writers (7,931) is a multiple of 11.  Of this number, the 21 writers
of the Old testament (3-7's) have 3,808 or 544-7's and the new
Testament writers have (Feature 10) 4,123 or 589-7's.  Of the 3,808
belonging to the Old Testament, 2,933 or 419-7's belong to the writers
of the Law and the Prophets, from Moses to Malachi, and 1,190 or 170-
7's belong to the writers of the hagiographa, from David to Nehemiah
(Feature 11).  Seven of the 21 Old Testament writers (3-7's) are
expressly named in the New Testament; These are Moses, David, Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Daniel, Hosea and Joel.  Their numeric value is 1,554 or
222-7's (Features 12 & 13).  The numeric value of Moses, who heads the
list, and John who closes it is 345 and 1069 which equal 1414 or 202-
7's (Feature 14)

     The Bible begins with the Hebrew word "beginning" and ends with
the Greek word "saint".  The Hebrew word occurs in the following
books: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, 1 Samuel,
Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Hosea, Amos, Micah, Psalms, Proverbs, Job,
Ecclesiastes, Daniel, Nehemiah and 2 Chronicles.  The Greek word
occurs in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, 1 John,
Jude, Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Ephesians, Philemon and
Revelation.  These books total 42 or 6-7's.  Take the number of these
books in the order of their respective place and the sum is 1575 or
225-7's.

     The possibility of these eight features of SEVEN, and the eight
features of ELEVEN occurring together,is ONE IN 5,764,801 TIMES
214,358,881 or ONE IN ONE THOUSAND MILLION  MILLIONS !

     It would be IMPOSSIBLE, therefore to claim accident or conspiracy
in the phenomena indicated.  The above clearly demonstrates the design
of:

1. THE NUMBER AND ORDER OF BOOKS AS RECEIVED. *feature 1*

2. THE  PROPORTION BETWEEN ANONYMOUS AND NON-ANONYMOUS BOOKS *2*

3. THE PROPORTION BETWEEN BOOKS WRITTEN BY AN AUTHOR OF A SINGLE BOOK
AND THOSE WRITTEN BY AUTHORS OF MORE THAN ONE BOOK. *3 & 4*

4. THE PROPORTION BETWEEN EPISTLE AND NON EPISTLE BOOKS. *5*

5. THE NUMBER OF O.T. WRITERS QUOTED IN THE N.T. *6*

     The Bible was written by some thirty different writers from many
different walks of life over a period of sixteen hundred years between
its first and last writers.  If we assume that it was exclusively
written by HUMAN hands, we cannot account for the mathematic phenomena
demonstrated.  If we assume that a SUPERIOR MATHEMATICAL MIND (The
Mathematical Author of Nature) has planned these phenomena, then we
are provided with an immediate and rational explanation of these
phenomena and others found in the Bible.

                   THE GENEALOGY OF OUR LORD JESUS

     The genealogy of Christ as found in Matthew 1:1-17 consists of two
main divisions: Verses 1-11 cover the period from Abraham, the father
of the chosen people, to the Captivity, when the Jews ceased being an
independent people.  Verses 12-17 cover the period from the Captivity
to the promised Messiah, The Christ.

     The Vocabulary has 49 words (7 x 7). Of these 49 words, 28 (4x7)
begin with a vowel; and 21 (3x7) begin with a consonant.  Seven words
end with a vowel (1x7) and 42 (6x7) end with a consonant.  These 49
words consist of 266 letters (7x2x19 OR 38x7).  Of these 266 letters,
140 (20x7) are vowels and 126 (18x7) are consonants.  Of these 49
words, 35 (5x7) occur more than once in this passage, while 14 (2x7)
occur only once.  Seven (1x7) occur in more than one form, while 42
(6x7) occur in only one form.  42 words (6x7) are nouns while 7 (1x7)
words are not nouns.  Of these nouns, 35 (5x7) are proper names, and 7
(1x7) are common nouns.  Of the proper names, 28 (4x7) are male
ancestors, while 7 (1x7) are not.

     If we take a look at the Birth of Jesus in verses 18-25, we find
the following:

. The Number of words is 161 (23 x 7)
. Their Numeric value is 93,394 (13,342 x 7)
. The Number of Vocabulary is 77 (11 x 7)
. The Numeric value of the Vocabulary is 51,247 (7,321 x 7)

     There are six words found nowhere else in Matthew:

. Their numeric value is 5,005 (715 x 7)
. These six words have 56 letters (8 x 7)

. The 161 words occur in 105 forms (15 x 7)
. The Numeric value of these forms is 65,429 (9,347 x 7)

. In these 105 forms are 35 verbs (5 x 7)
. There are 7 proper names (1 x 7)
. The number of letters in these proper names is 42 (6 x 7)

     One word EMMANUEL is used nowhere else in the N.T. and has a
numeric value of 644 (92 x 7). (add the figures 644 together for 14)
(2 x 7)

. The number forms exclusive to this passage by Matthew is 14 (2 x 7)
. Their numeric value is 8,715 (1,245 x 7)
                
                               CHANCE?

                     1 in 10 to the power of 169
                               or
                       1 followed by 169 zeros!

               LOOK AT THE WORDS OF THE ANGEL TO JOSEPH

. The angel uses 28 of the 77 vocabulary words (4 x 7)
. The numeric value of all the angel's words is 21,042 (3,006 x 7)
. The angel uses 35 forms (5 x 7)
. These 35 have 168 letters (24 x 7)
. The numeric value of these letters is 19,397 (2,771 x 7)
. The angel does not use 49 vocabulary words (7 x 7)
. The angel does not use 70 forms (10 x 7)

     The Chance of this being an accident or by human design is 1 in
206,000,000,000,000,000,000 (206 QUINTILLION - 21 digits)

                      OUR INTENT IN THIS REPORT

     It is not the desire of this report to provide anything other
than an insight into the immeasurable intelligence that produced the
Bible.  The same intelligence that produced the limitless stretches of
space, that produced the smallest one cell creature, the same one that
created it ALL, is the only source that could have produced the Bible
as it presently stands.

     We actively solicit any and all comments that may be made
concerning this document and its results.  Please direct any and all
comments to: SYSOP, COMPUTERS FOR CHRIST.

Computers for Christ - San Jose
