
  The Book of Common Prayer:  E-text Edition (American, 1979)
  Version 1.0
  13 December 1993


If you are viewing this file with a word processor, we recommend you 
reformat it with a non-proportional, 10 point font, such as Courier 10.  
You should try to stop your program from automatically re-paragraphing 
the text, since line breaks are significant.

This file, which should be called BCP10.TXT or bcp10.txt, is in the 
PUBLIC DOMAIN.  You may make copies, distribute them, produce derivative 
works, reformat, and make extracts from it.  If you do so, please do not 
distribute this header along with your altered E-text.

In particular, if you remove this header, you may use this file in 
proprietary retrieval systems or embed the text in software that you 
sell.  We wish to encourage the production of hypertext systems, both 
public domain and proprietary, containing the text of the _Book of 
Common Prayer_, and also of commentaries in electronic format.

This version of the 1979 American version of the _Book of Common Prayer_ 
was edited by John E. Goodwin (jegoodwin@delphi.com).  The text was 
contributed by members of the Electronic Mailing list ANGLICAN, which is 
sponsored by American Methodist University, Washington, DC.  (The 
university has no connection with the E-text project).  

To subscribe to ANGLICAN, send the command "subscribe anglican" in the 
*body* of a message to "listserv@american.edu".  You may then send 
messages to "anglican@american.edu".  Notice that the addresses for 
sign-on and posting are different.


The base text was largely hand-typed by

  Michael I. Bushnell, of the Church of St. John Evangelist, Boston; and

  John E. Goodwin, III, of St. Charles Episcopal Church, St. Charles, 
Illinois.

Certain parts were contributed by:
  
  Barbara Bachman, St. Charles Episcopal Church

  Jim Bachman, St. Charles Episcopal Church

  John Covert, Church of the Advent, Boston

The Psalter was prepared by John E. Goodwin and Robin Cover, with the
assistance of:

  Janelle Allen
  Jo Blansett
  Michael Bushnell
  Janet Cover
  Jesse Cover
  Sarah Cover
  JoAnn Crupi
  Mike Herschenroeder
  Sherry Hines
  Steve McConnel
  Lark Rilling
  Linda Simons
  Jeanne Swanson
  John Thomson

The present text of the Psalter is generated from an SGML-tagged version 
created by Robin and Michael Cover.


The electronic edition of the BCP was prepared because all the E-text 
sources that we could find were proprietary, even though the text itself 
is guaranteed to be in the Public Domain by Canon Law.  We feel strongly 
that the basic texts of major religions, especially our own, and 
especially those used in liturgies, should be freely available in a form 
that is not restricted by a requirement of registration or payment of a 
fee.  Any fee, no matter how nominal, restricts the distribution of the 
text, prohibits its improvement by others and its inclusion in free 
software systems.  


Although this text has been checked with a spellchecker and checked for 
content by eye, we are aware that errors must still exist.**  We did not 
think this fact merited withholding the text, especially since it is 
accurate enough for devotional use, for reading to the blind, and for 
use as a base text for parish bulletins and programs.  Please send 
notice of errors more significant than simple typographical errors to 
"jegoodwin@delphi.com".

  ** In particular there are bugs in the page numbering.

This text is supported in the sense that we are committed to correcting 
errors and improving the format, e.g. to migrate to SGML.  If you need a 
highly accurate text for scholarly purposes, we recommend you contact us 
to help in the effort of preparing one.

A monograph for programmers on the markup scheme of the display format 
used and on the electronic typesetting of liturgical texts in general is 
in preparation.  We are also preparing an HTML version for posting on 
the World Wide Web (telnet info.cern.ch for more information about WWW).

=John Goodwin=
St. Charles, Illinois
Winter Embertide 1993

<page 1> 

<page 2> 

<page 3> 

THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER

and Administration of the Sacraments and Other Rites and Ceremonies of 
the Church

Together with The Psalter or Psalms of David

According to the use of 

The Episcopal Church

THE SEABURY PRESS : NEW YORK 

<page 4> 

[The Certificate of the original.  Note that this electronic text is
NOT approved by the Custodian of the Standard Book of Common Prayer.] 

<Certificate> 

I certify that this edition of The Book of Common Prayer
has been compared with a certified copy of the Standard Book,
as the Canon directs, and that it conforms thereto. 

Charles Mortimer Guilbert
=Custodian of the Standard Book of Common Prayer=
September, 1979 

<Page 5> 



<Table of Contents>

The Ratification of the Book of Common Prayer   8 

The Preface   9 

Concerning the Service of the Church  13 

The Calendar of the Church Year  15 


<The Daily Office> 

Daily Morning Prayer: Rite One   37 

Daily Evening Prayer: Rite One   61 

Daily Morning Prayer: Rite Two   75 

Noonday Prayer   103 

Order of Worship for the Evening   108 

Daily Evening Prayer: Rite Two    115 

Compline   127 

Daily Devotions for Individuals and Families   137 

Table of Suggested Canticle   144 


<The Great Litany>   148 


<The Collects: Traditional> 

Seasons of the Year   159 

Holy Days   185 

Common of Saints   195 

Various Occasions   199 

<page 6> 


<The Collects: Contemporary> 

Seasons of the Year   211 

Holy Days   237 

Common of Saints   246 

Various Occasions   251 


<Proper Liturgies for Special Days> 

Ash Wednesday   264 

Palm Sunday   270 

Maundy Thursday   274 

Good Friday   276 

Holy Saturday   283 

The Great Vigil of Easter   285 


<Holy Baptism   299> 


<The Holy Eucharist> 

An Exhortation   316 

A Penitential Order:  Rite One   319 

The Holy Eucharist:  Rite One   323 

A Penitential Order:  Rite Two   351 

The Holy Eucharist:  Rite Two   355 

Prayers of the People   383 

Communion under Special Circumstances   396 

An Order for Celebrating the Holy Eucharist   400 


<Pastoral Offices> 

Confirmation   413 

A Form of Commitment to Christian Service   420 

Celebration and Blessing of a Marriage   423 

The Blessing of a Civil Marriage   433 

An Order for Marriage   435 

Thanksgiving for the Birth or Adoption of a Child   439 

Reconciliation of a Penitent   447 

Ministration to the Sick   453 

Ministration at the Time of Death   462 

<Page 7> 

Burial of the Dead: Rite One   469 

Burial of the Dead: Rite Two   491 

An Order for Burial   506 


<Episcopal Services> 

Ordination of a Bishop   511 

Ordination of a Priest   525 

Ordination of a Deacon   537 

Litany for Ordinations   548 

Celebration of a New Ministry   557 

Consecration of a Church or Chapel   567 


<The Psalter, or Psalms of David>   585 


<Prayers and Thanksgivings>   810 


<An Outline of the Faith, or Catechism>   845 


<Historical Documents of the Church>   864
(including the Articles of Religion) 


<Tables for Finding the Date of Easter and other Holy Days>   880 


<The Lectionary>   888 

Year A   889 

Year B   900 

Year C   911 

Holy Days   921 

Common of Saints   925 

Various Occasions   927 


<Daily Office Lectionary>   934 

Seasons of the Year   936 

Holy Days   996 

Special Occasions   1000 

<page 8> 



<The Ratification of the Book of Common Prayer (1789)> 

By the Bishops, the Clergy, and the Laity of the Protestant Episcopal
Church in the United States of America, in Convention, this Sixteenth
Day of October, in the Year of Our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred
and Eighty-Nine. 

This Convention having, in their present session, set forth =A Book of
Common Prayer, and Administration of the Sacraments, and other Rites
and Ceremonies of the Church,= do hereby establish the said Book:  And
they declare it to be the Liturgy of this Church: And require that it be
received as such by all the members of the same:  And this Book shall be 
in use from and after the First Day of October, in the Year of Our Lord 
one thousand seven hundred and ninety. 

<page 9> 



<Preface> 

It is a most invaluable part of that blessed "liberty wherewith Christ 
hath made us free," that in his worship different forms and usages may 
without offense be allowed, provided the substance of the Faith be kept 
entire; and that, in every Church, what cannot be clearly determined to 
belong to Doctrine must be referred to Discipline; and therefore, by 
common consent and authority, may be altered, abridged, enlarged, 
amended, or otherwise disposed of, as may seem most convenient for the 
edification of the people, "according to the various exigency of times 
and occasions." 

The Church of England, to which the Protestant Episcopal Church in
these States is indebted, under God, for her first foundation and a long
continuance of nursing care and protection, hath, in the Preface of her 
Book of Common Prayer, laid it down as a rule, that "The particular 
Forms of Divine Worship, and the Rites and Ceremonies appointed to be 
used therein, being things in their own nature indifferent, and 
alterable, and so acknowledged; it is but reasonable that upon weighty 
and important considerations, according to the various exigency of times 
and occasions, such changes and alterations should be made therein, as 
to those that are in place of Authority should, from time to time, seem 
either necessary or expedient." 

The same Church hath not only in her Preface, but likewise in her 
Articles and Homilies, declared tho necessity and expediency of 
occasional alterations and amendments in her Forms of Public Worship; 
and we find accordingly, that, seeking to keep the happy mean between 
too much stiffness in refusing, and too much easiness in admitting 
variations in 

<page 10> 

things once advisedly established, she hath, in the reign of several 
Princes, since the first compiling of her Liturgy in the time of Edward 
the Sixth, upon just and weighty considerations her thereunto moving, 
yielded to make such alterations in some particulars, as in their 
respective times were thought convenient; yet so as that the main body 
and essential parts of the same (as well in the chiefest materials, as 
in the frame and order thereof) have still been continued firm and 
unshaken 

Her general aim in these different reviews and alterations hath been, as 
she further declares in her said Preface, to do that which, according to 
her best understanding, might most tend to the preservation of peace and 
unity in the Church; the procuring of reverence, and the exciting of 
piety and devotion in the worship of God; and, finally, the cutting off 
occasion, from them that seek occasion, of cavil or quarrel against her 
Liturgy.  And although, according to her judgment, there be not any 
thing in it contrary to the Word of God, or to sound doctrine, or which 
a godly man may not with a good conscience use and submit unto, or which 
is not fairly defensible, if allowed such just and favourable 
construction as in common equity ought to be allowed to all human 
writings; yet upon the principles already laid down, it cannot but be 
supposed that further alterations would be found expedient.  
Accordingly, a Commission for a review was issued in the year 1689:  but 
this great and good work miscarried at that time; and the Civil 
Authority has not since thought proper to revive it by any new 
Commission. 

But when in the course of Divine Providence, these American States 
became independent with respect to civil government, their 
ecclesiastical independence was necessarily included; and the different 
religious denominations of Christians in these States were left at full 
and equal liberty to model and organize their respective Churches, and 
forms of worship, and discipline, in such manner as they might judge 
most convenient for their future prosperity; consistently with the 
constitution and laws of their country. 

The attention of this Church was in the first place drawn to those 
alterations in the Liturgy which became necessary in the prayers for our 
Civil Rulers, in consequence of the Revolution.  And the principal care 
herein was to make them conformable to what ought to be the proper
end of all such prayers, namely, that "Rulers may have grace, wisdom,
<page 11>
and understanding to execute justice, and to maintain truth;" and that 
the people "may lead quiet and peaceable lives, in all godliness and 
honesty." 

But while these alterations were in review before the Convention, they 
could not but, with gratitude to God, embrace the happy occasion which 
was offered to them (uninfluenced and unrestrained by any worldly 
authority whatsoever) to take a further review of the Public Service, 
and to establish such other alterations and amendments therein as might 
be deemed expedient. 

It seems unnecessary to enumerate all the different alterations and 
amendments.  They will appear, and it is to be hoped, the reasons of 
them also, upon a comparison of this with the Book of Common Prayer of 
the Church of England.  In which it will also appear that this Church is 
far from intending to depart from the Church of England in any essential 
point of doctrine, discipline, or worship; or further than local 
circumstances require. 

And now, this important work being brought to a conclusion, it is hoped 
the whole will be received and examined by every true member of our 
Church, and every sincere Christian, with a meek, candid, and charitable 
frame of mind; without prejudice or prepossessions; seriously 
considering what Christianity is, and what the truths of the Gospel are; 
and earnestly beseeching Almighty God to accompany with his blessing 
every endeavour for promulgating them to mankind in the clearest, 
plainest, most affecting and majestic manner, for the sake of Jesus 
Christ, our blessed Lord and Saviour. 

=Philadelphia, October, 1789= 

<page 12> 

<page 13> 



<Concerning the Service
of the Church> 

The Holy Eucharist, the principal act of Christian worship on the Lord's
Day and other major Feasts, and Daily Morning and Evening Prayer, as
set forth in this Book, are the regular services appointed for public
worship in the Church. 

In addition to these services and the other rites contained in this 
Book, other forms set forth by authority within this Church may be used.  
Also, subject to the direction of the bishop, special devotions taken 
from this Book, or from Holy Scripture, may be used when the needs of 
the  congregation so require. 

For special days of thanksgiving, appointed by civil or Church 
authority, and for other special occasions for which no service or 
prayer has been provided in this Book, the bishop may set forth such 
forms as are fitting to the occasion. 

In all services, the entire Christian assembly participates in such a 
way that the members of each order within the Church, lay persons, 
bishops, priests, and deacons, fulfull the functions proper to their 
respective orders, as set forth in the rubrical directions for each 
service. 

The leader of worship in a Christian assembly is normally a bishop or 
priest.  Deacons by virtue of their order do not exercise a presiding 
function; but, like lay persons, may officiate in the Liturgy of the 
Word, whether in the form provided in the Daily Office, or (when a 
bishop or priest is not present) in the form appointed at the Eucharist.  
Under exceptional circumstances, when the services of a priest cannot be 
obtained, the bishop may, at discretion, authorize a deacon to preside
<page 14>
at other rites also, subject to the limitations described in the 
directions for each service. 

In any of the Proper Liturgies for Special Days, and in other services 
contained within this Book celebrated in the context of a Rite One 
service, the contemporary idiom may be conformed to traditional 
language. 

Hymns referred to in the rubrics of this Book are understood as those 
authorized by this Church.  The words of anthems are to be from
Holy Scripture, or from this Book, or from texts congruent with them. 

On occasion, and as appropriate, instrumental music may be substituted 
for a hymn or anthem. 

Where rubrics indicate that a part of a service is to be "said," it must 
be understood to include "or sung," and =vice versa.= 

When it is desired to use music composed for them, previously authorized 
liturgical texts may be used in place of the corresponding texts in this 
Book. 

Scriptural citations in this Book, except for the Psalms, follow the 
numeration of the Revised Standard Version of the Bible. 

<page 15> 



<The Calendar
of the Church Year> 

The Church Year consists of two cycles of feasts and holy days:  one is
dependent upon the movable date of the Sunday of the Resurrection or
Easter Day; the other, upon the fixed date of December 25, the Feast of
our Lord's Nativity or Christmas Day. 

Easter Day is always the first Sunday after the full moon that falls on  
or after March 21.  It cannot occur before March 22 or after April 25. 

The sequence of all Sundays of the Church Year depends upon the date of
Easter Day.  But the Sundays of Advent are always the four Sundays
before Christmas Day, whether it occurs on a Sunday or a weekday.  The
date of Easter also determines the beginning of Lent on Ash Wednesday,
and the feast of the Ascension on a Thursday forty days after Easter 
Day. 


<1.  Principal Feasts> 

The Principle Feasts observed in this Church are the following: 

Easter Day 

Ascension Day 

The Day of Pentecost 

Trinity Sunday 


All Saint's Day : November 1 

Christmas Day : December 25 

The Epiphany : January 6 

These feasts take precedence of any other day or observance.  All 
Saints' Day may always be observed on the Sunday following November 1, 
in addition to its observance on the fixed date. 

<page 16> 


<2. Sundays> 

All Sundays of the year are feasts of our Lord Jesus Christ.  In 
addition to the dated days listed above, only the following feasts, 
appointed on fixed days, take precedence of a Sunday: 

The Holy Name 

The Presentation 

The Transfiguration 

The feast of the Dedication of a Church, and the feast of its patron or 
title, may be observed on, or be transferred to, a Sunday, except in the 
seasons of Advent, Lent, and Easter. 

All other Feasts of our Lord, and all other Major Feasts appointed on 
fixed days in the Calendar, when they occur on a Sunday, are normally 
transferred to the first convenient open day within the week.  When 
desired, however, the Collect, Preface, and one or more of the Lessons 
appointed for the Feast may be substituted for those of the Sunday, but 
not from the Last Sunday after Pentecost through the First Sunday after 
the Epiphany, or from the Last Sunday after the Epiphany through
Trinity Sunday. 

With the express permission of the bishop, and for urgent and sufficient 
reason, some other special occasion may be observed on a Sunday. 


<3. Holy Days> 

The following Holy Days are regularly observed throughout the year. 
Unless otherwise ordered in the preceding rules concerning Sundays, they 
have precedence over all other days of commemoration or of special 
observance: 

=Other Feasts of Our Lord= 

The Holy Name 

The Presentation 

The Annunciation 

The Visitation 


Saint John the Baptist 

The Transfiguration 

Holy Cross Day 

<page 17> 


=Other Major Feasts= 

All feasts of Apostles 

All feasts of Evangelists 

Saint Stephen 

The Holy Innocents 

Saint Joseph 

Saint Mary Magdalene 


Saint Mary the Virgin 

Saint Michael and All Angels 

Saint James of Jerusalem 

Independence Day 

Thanksgiving Day 


=Fasts= 

Ash Wednesday 

Good Friday 


Feasts appointed of fixed days in the Calendar are not observed on the 
days of Holy Week or of Easter Week.  Major Feasts falling in these 
weeks are transferred to the week following the Second Sunday of Easter, 
in the order of their occurrence. 

Feasts appointed on fixed days in the Calendar do not take precedence of 
Ash Wednesday. 

Feasts of our Lord and other Major Feasts appointed on fixed days,
which fall upon or are transferred to a weekday, may be observed on any 
open day within the week.  This provision does not apply to Christmas 
Day, the Epiphany, and All Saints' Day. 


<4. Days of Special Devotion> 

The following days are observed by special acts of discipline and
self-denial: 

Ash Wednesday and the other weekdays of Lent and of Holy Week,
except the feast of the Annunciation. 

Good Friday and all other Fridays of the year, in commemoration of the 
Lord's crucifixion, except for Fridays in the Christmas and Easter 
seasons, and any Feasts of our Lord which occur on a Friday. 


<5. Days of Optional Observance> 

Subject to the rules of precedence governing Principal Feasts, Sundays, 
<page 18>
and Holy Days, the following may be observed with the Collects, Psalms, 
and Lessons duly authorized by this Church: 

Commemorations listed in the Calendar 

Other Commemorations, using the Common of Saints 

The Ember Days, traditionally observed on the Wednesdays, Fridays, and
Saturdays after the First Sunday in Lent, the Day of Pentecost, Holy
Cross Day, and December 13. 

The Rogation Days, traditionally observed on Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday before Ascension Day 

Various Occasions 

Provided, that there is no celebration of the Eucharist for any such 
occasion on Ash Wednesday, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday, and Holy 
Saturday; and provided further, that none of the Propers appointed for 
Various Occasions is used as a substitute for, or as an addition to, the 
Proper appointed for the Principal Feasts. 

<page 19> 


*January* 

   1  A : *The Holy Name of Our Lord Jesus Christ* 

   2  b 

   3  c 

   4  d 

   5  e 

   6  f : *The Epiphany of Our Lord Jesus Christ* 

   7  g 

   8  A 

   9  b 

   10 c : William Laud, Archbishop of Canterbury, 1645 

   11 d 

   12 e 

   13 f : Hilary, Bishop of Poitiers, 367 

   14 g 

   15 A 

   16 b 

   17 c : Antony, Abbot in Egypt, 356 

   18 d : *The Confession of Saint Peter the Apostle* 

   19 e : Wulfstan, Bishop of Worcester, 1095 

   20 f : Fabian, Bishop and Martyr of Rome, 250 

   21 g : Agnes, Martyr at Rome, 304 

   22 A : Vincent, Deacon of Saragossa, and Martyr, 304 

   23 b : Phillips Brooks, Bishop of Massachusetts, 1893 

   24 c 

   25 d : *The Conversion of Saint Paul the Apostle* 

   26 e : Timothy and Titus, Companions of Saint Paul 

   27 f : John Chrysostom, Bishop of Constantinople, 407 

   28 g : Thomas Aquinas, Priest and Friar, 1274 

   29 A 

   30 b 

   31 c 


<page 20> 


*February* 

   1  d 

   2  e : *The Presentation of Our Lord Jesus Christ in the Temple* 

   3  f : Anskar, Archbishop of Hamburg, Missionary to Denmark and 
Sweden, 865 

   4  g : Cornelius the Centurion 

   5  A : The Martyrs of Japan, 1597 

   6  b 

   7  c 

   8  d 

   9  e 

   10 f 

   11 g 

   12 A 

   13 b : Absalom Jones, Priest, 1818 

   14 c : Cyril, Monk, and Methodius, Bishop, Missionaries to the Slavs, 
869, 885 

   15 d : Thomas Bray, Priest and Missionary, 1730 

   16 e 

   17 f 

   18 g 

   19 A 

   20 b 

   21 c 

   22 d 

   23 e : Polycarp, Bishop and Martyr of Smyrna, 156 

   24 f : *Saint Matthias the Apostle* 

   25 g 

   26 A 

   27 b : George Herbert, Priest, 1633 

   28 c 

   29 

<page 21> 


*March* 

   1  d : David, Bishop of Menevia, Wales, c. 544 

   2  e : Chad, Bishop of Lichfield, 672 

   3  f : John and Charles Wesley, Priests, 1791, 1788 

   4  g 

   5  A 

   6  b 

   7  c : Perpetua and Her Companions, Martyrs at Carthage, 202 

   8  d 

   9  e : Gregory, Bishop of Nyssa, c. 394 

   10 f 

   11 g 

   12 A : Gregory the Great, Bishop of Rome, 604 

   13 b 

   14 c 

   15 d 

   16 e 

   17 f : Patrick, Bishop and Missionary of Ireland, 461 

   18 g : Cyril, Bishop of Jerusalem, 386 

   19 A : *Saint Joseph* 

   20 b : Cuthbert, Bishop of Lindisfarne, 687 

   21 c : Thomas Ken, Bishop of Bath and Wells, 1711 

14 22 d : James De Koven, Priest, 1879 

 3 23 e : Gregory the Illuminator, Bishop and Missionary of Armenia, 332  

   24 f 

11 25 g : *The Annunciation of Our Lord Jesus Christ to the Blessed 
Virgin Mary* 

   26 A 

19 27 b : Charles Henry Brent, Bishop of the Philippines, and of Western 
New York, 1929 

 8 28 c 

   29 d : John Keble, Priest, 1866 

16 30 e 

 5 31 f : John Donne, Priest, 1631 

<page 22> 


*April* 

   1  g : Frederick Denison Maurice, Priest, 1872 

13 2  A : James Lloyd Breck, Priest, 1876 

 2 3  b : Richard, Bishop of Chichester, 1253 

   4  c 

10 5  d 

   6  e 

18 7  f 

 7 8  g : William Augustus Muhlenberg, Priest, 1877 

   9  A : William Law, Priest, 1761 

15 10 b 

 4 11 c : George Augustus Selwyn, Bishop of New Zealand, and of 
Lichfield, 1878 

   12 d 

12 13 e 

 1 14 f 

   15 g 

 9 16 A 

17 17 b 

 6 18 c 

   19 d : Alphege, Archbishop of Canterbury, and Martyr, 1012 

   20 e 

   21 f : Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury, 1109 

   22 g 

   23 A 

   24 b 

   25 c : *Saint Mark the Evangelist* 

   26 d 

   27 e 

   28 f 

   29 g : Catherine of Siena, 1380 

   30 A
  

<page 23> 


*May* 

   1  b : *Saint Philip and Saint James, Apostles* 

   2  c : Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria, 373 

   3  d 

   4  e : Monnica, Mother of Augustine of Hippo, 387 

   5  f 

   6  g 

   7  A 

   8  b : Dame Julian of Norwich, c. 1417 

   9  c : Gregory of Nazianzus, Bishop of Constantinople, 389 

   10 d 

   11 e 

   12 f 

   13 g 

   14 A 

   15 b 

   16 c 

   17 d 

   18 e 

   19 f : Dunstan, Archbishop of Canterbury, 988 

   20 g : Alcuin, Deacon, and Abbot of Tours, 804 

   21 A 

   22 b 

   23 c 

   24 d : Jackson Kemper, First Missionary Bishop in the United States, 
1870 

   25 e : Bede, the Venerable, Priest, and Monk of Jarrow, 735 

   26 f : Augustine, First Archbishop of Canterbury, 605 

   27 g 

   28 A 

   29 b 

   30 c 

   31 d : *The Visitation of the Virgin Mary* 

*The First Book of Common Prayer, 1549, is appropriately observed on a
weekday following the Day of Pentecost.* 

<page 24> 


*June* 

   1  e : Justin, Martyr at Rome, c. 167 

   2  f : The Martyrs of Lyons, 177 

   3  g : The Martyrs of Uganda, 1886 

   4  A 

   5  b : Boniface, Archbishop of Mainz, Missionary to Germany, and 
Martyr, 754 

   6  c 

   7  d 

   8  e 

   9  f : Columba, Abbot of Iona, 597 

   10 g : Ephrem of Edessa, Syria, Deacon, 373 

   11 A : *Saint Barnabas the Apostle 

   12 b 

   13 c 

   14 d : Basil the Great, Bishop of Caesarea, 379 

   15 e 

   16 f : Joseph Butler, Bishop of Durham, 1752 

   17 g 

   18 A : Bernard Mizeki, Catechist and Martyr in Rhodesia, 1896 

   19 b 

   20 c 

   21 d 

   22 e : Alban, First Martyr of Britain, c. 304 

   23 f 

   24 g : *The Nativity of Saint John the Baptist* 

   25 A 

   26 b 

   27 c 

   28 d : Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons, c. 202 

   29 e : *Saint Peter and Saint Paul, Apostles* 

   30 f 

<page 25> 


*July* 

   1  g 

   2  A 

   3  b 

   4  c : *Independence Day* 

   5  d 

   6  e 

   7  f 

   8  g 

   9  A 

   10 b 

   11 c : Benedict of Nursia, Abbot of Monte Casino, c. 540 

   12 d 

   13 e 

   14 f 

   15 g 

   16 A 

   17 b : William White, Bishop of Pennsylvania, 1836 

   18 c 

   19 d 

   20 e 

   21 f 

   22 g : *Saint Mary Magdalene* 

   23 A 

   24 b : Thomas a Kempis, Priest, 1471 

   25 c : *Saint James the Apostle* 

   26 d : The Parents of the Blessed Virgin Mary 

   27 e : William Reed Huntington, Priest, 1909 

   28 f 

   29 g : Mary and Martha of Bethany 

   30 A : William Wilberforce, 1833 

   31 b : Joseph of Arimathaea 


<page 26> 


*August* 

   1  c 

   2  d 

   3  e 

   4  f 

   5  g 

   6  A : *The Transfiguration of Our Lord Jesus Christ* 

   7  b : John Mason Neale, Priest, 1866 

   8  c : Dominic, Priest and Friar, 1221 

   9  d 

   10 e : Lawrence, Deacon, and Martyr at Rome, 258 

   11 f : Clare, Abbess at Assisi, 1253 

   12 g 

   13 A : Jeremy Taylor, Bishop of Down, Connor, and Dromore, 1667 

   14 b 

   15 c : *Saint Mary the Virgin, Mother of Our Lord Jesus Christ* 

   16 d 

   17 e 

   18 f : William Porcher DuBose, Priest, 1918 

   19 g 

   20 A : Bernard, Abbot of Clairvaux, 1153 

   21 b 

   22 c 

   23 d 

   24 e : *Saint Bartholomew the Apostle* 

   25 f : Louis, King of France, 1270 

   26 g 

   27 A 

   28 b : Augustine, Bishop of Hippo, 430 

   29 c 

   30 d 

   31 e : Aidan, Bishop of Lindisfarne, 651 

<page 27> 


*September* 

   1  f 

   2  g : The Martyrs of New Guinea, 1942 

   3  A 

   4  b 

   5  c 

   6  d 

   7  e 

   8  f 

   9  g 

   10 A 

   11 b 

   12 c : John Henry Hobart, Bishop of New York, 1830 

   13 d : Cyprian, Bishop and Martyr of Carthage, 258 

   14 e : *Holy Cross Day* 

   15 f 

   16 g : Ninian, Bishop in Galloway, c. 430 

   17 A 

   18 b : Edward Bouverie Pusey, Priest, 1882 

   19 c : Theodore of Tarsus, Archbishop of Canterbury, 690 

   20 d : John Coleridge Patteson, Bishop of Melanesia, and his 
Companions, Martyrs, 1971 

   21 e : *Saint Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist* 

   22 f 

   23 g 

   24 A 

   25 b : Sergius, Abbot of Holy Trinity, Moscow, 1392 

   26 c : Lancelot Andrewes, Bishop of Winchester, 1626 

   27 d 

   28 e 

   29 f : *Saint Michael and All Angels* 

   30 g : Jerome, Priest, and Monk of Bethlehem, 420 


<page 28> 


*October* 

   1  A : Remigius, Bishop of Rheims, c. 530 

   2  b 

   3  c 

   4  d : Francis of Assisi, Friar, 1226 

   5  e 

   6  f : William Tyndale, Priest, 1536 

   7  g 

   8  A 

   9  b : Robert Grosseteste, Bishop of Lincoln 

   10 c 

   11 d 

   12 e 

   13 f 

   14 g 

   15 A : Samuel Isaac Joseph Schereschewsky, Bishop of Shanghai, 1906 

   16 b : Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley, Bishops, 1555, and Thomas 
Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, 1556 

   17 c : Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch, and Martyr, c. 115 

   18 d : *Saint Luke the Evangelist* 

   19 e : Henry Martyn, Priest and Missionary to India and Persia, 1812 

   20 f 

   21 g 

   22 A 

   23 b : *Saint James of Jerusalem, Brother of Our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and Martyr, c. 62* 

   24 c 

   25 d 

   26 e : Alfred the Great, King of the West Saxons, 899 

   27 f 

   28 g : *Saint Simon and Saint Jude, Apostles*

   29 A : James Hannington, Bishop of Eastern Equatorial Africa, and his 
Companions, Martyrs, 1885 

   30 b 

   31 c 

<page 29> 


*November* 

   1  d : *All Saints* 

   2  e : Commemoration of All Faithful Departed 

   3  f : Richard Hooker, Priest, 1600 

   4  g 

   5  A 

   6  b 

   7  c : Willibrord, Archbishop of Utrecht, Missionary to Frisia, 739 

   8  d 

   9  e 

   10 f : Leo the Great, Bishop of Rome, 461 

   11 g : Martin, Bishop of Tours, 397 

   12 A : Charles Simeon, Priest, 1836 

   13 b 

   14 c : Consecration of Samuel Seabury, First American Bishop, 1784 

   15 d 

   16 e : Margaret, Queen of Scotland, 1093 

   17 f : Hugh, Bishop of Lincoln, 1200 

   18 g : Hilda, Abbess of Whitby, 680 

   19 A : Elizabeth, Princess of Hungary, 1231 

   20 b 

   21 c 

   22 d 

   23 e : Clement, Bishop of Rome, c. 100 

   24 f 

   25 g 

   26 A 

   27 b 

   28 c
   29 d 


   30 e : *Saint Andrew the Apostle* 


<page 30> 


*December* 

   1  f : Nicholas Ferrar, Deacon, 1637 

   2  g : Channing Moore Williams, Missionary Bishop in China and Japan, 
1910  

   3  A 

   4  b : John of Damascus, Priest, c. 760 

   5  c : Clement of Alexandria, Priest, c. 210 

   6  d : Nicholas, Bishop of Myra, c. 342 

   7  e : Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, 397 

   8  f 

   9  g 

   10 A 

   11 b 

   12 c 

   13 d 

   14 e 

   15 f 

   16 g 

   17 A 

   18 b 

   19 c 

   20 d 

   21 e : *Saint Thomas the Apostle* 

   22 f 

   23 g 

   24 A 

   25 b : *The Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ* 

   26 c : *Saint Stephen, Deacon and Martyr* 

   27 d : *Saint John, Apostle and Evangelist* 

   28 e : *The Holy Innocents* 

   29 f 

   30 g 

   31 A 


<page 31> 


<The Titles of the Seasons
Sundays and Major Holy Days
observed in this Church throughout the Year> 


=Advent Season= 

The First Sunday of Advent 

The Second Sunday of Advent 

The Third Sunday of Advent 

The Fourth Sunday of Advent 


=Christmas Season= 

The Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ: Christmas Day, December 25 

The First Sunday after Christmas Day 

The Holy Name of Our Lord Jesus Christ, January 1 

The Second Sunday after Christmas Day 


=Epiphany Season= 

The Epiphany, or the Manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles,  January 6 

The First Sunday after the Epiphany: The Baptism of Our Lord
 Jesus Christ  

The Second Sunday through the Eighth Sunday after the Epiphany 

The Last Sunday after the Epiphany 


=Lenten Season= 

The First Day of Lent, or Ash Wednesday 

The First Sunday in Lent 

The Second Sunday in Lent 

The Third Sunday in Lent 

The Fourth Sunday in Lent 

The Fifth Sunday in Lent 


=Holy Week= 

The Sunday of the Passion: Palm Sunday 

Monday in Holy Week 

<page 32> 

Tuesday in Holy Week 

Wednesday in Holy Week 

Maundy Thursday 

Good Friday 

Holy Saturday 


=Easter Season= 

Easter Eve 

The Sunday of the Resurrection, or Easter Day 

Monday in Easter Week 

Tuesday in Easter Week 

Wednesday in Easter Week 

Thursday in Easter Week 

Friday in Easter Week 

Saturday in Easter Week 

The Second Sunday of Easter 

The Third Sunday of Easter 

The Fourth Sunday of Easter 

The Fifth Sunday of Easter 

The Sixth Sunday of Easter 

Ascension Day 

The Seventh Sunday of Easter: The Sunday after Ascension Day 

The Day of Pentecost: Whitsunday 


=The Season After Pentecost= 

The First Sunday after Pentecost: Trinity Sunday 

The Second Sunday through the Twenty-Seventh Sunday after Pentecost 

The Last Sunday after Pentecost 


=Holy Days= 

Saint Andrew the Apostle, November 30 

Saint Thomas the Apostle, December 21 

Saint Stephen, Deacon and Martyr, December 26 

Saint John, Apostle and Evangelist, December 27 

The Holy Innocents, December 28 

The Confession of Saint Peter the Apostle, January 18 

<page 33> 

The Conversion of Saint Paul the Apostle, January 25 

The Presentation of Our Lord Jesus Christ in the Temple, also called
 the Purification of Saint Mary the Virgin, February 2 

Saint Matthias the Apostle, February 24 

Saint Joseph, March 19 

The Annunciation of Our Lord Jesus Christ to the Blessed Virgin Mary,
 March 25 

Saint Mark the Evangelist, April 25 

Saint Philip and Saint James, Apostles, May 1 

The Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary, May 31 

Saint Barnabas the Apostle, June 11 

The Nativity of Saint John the Baptist, June 24 

Saint Peter and Saint Paul, Apostles, June 29 

Saint Mary Magdalene, July 22 

Saint James the Apostle, July 25 

The Transfiguration of Our Lord Jesus Christ, August 6 

Saint Mary the Virgin, Mother of Our Lord Jesus Christ, August 15 

Saint Bartholomew the Apostle, August 24 

Holy Cross Day, September 14 

Saint Matthew, Apostle and Evangelist, September 21 

Saint Michael and All Angels, September 29 

Saint Luke the Evangelist, October 18 

Saint James of Jerusalem, Brother of Our Lord Jesus Christ, and
 Martyr, October 23 

Saint Simon and Saint Jude, Apostles, October 28 

All Saints' Day, November 1 


=National Days= 

Independence Day, July 4 

Thanksgiving Day 

<page 34> 

<page 35> 

The Daily Office 

<page 36> 


<Concerning the Service> 

*In the Daily Office, the term "Officiant" is used to denote the person,
clerical or lay, who leads the Office.* 

*It is appropriate taht others persons be assigned to read the Lessons, 
and to lead other parts of the service not assigned to the officiant.  
The bishop, when present, apporpriately concludes the Office with a 
blessing.* 

*At celebrations of the Holy Eucharist, the Order for Morning or Evening
Prayer may be used in place of all that precedes the Offertory.* 

*Additional Directions are on page 141.* 

<page 37> 



<Daily Morning Prayer:
Rite One> 


*The Officiant begins the service with one or more of these sentences of
Scripture, or with the versicle "O Lord, open thou our lips" on page 
42.* 


=Advent= 

Watch ye , for ye know not when the master of the house
cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock-crowing, or in
the morning; lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.
=Mark 13:35, 36= 

Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a
highway for our God.  =Isaiah 40:3= 

The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see
it together.  =Isaiah 40:5= 


=Christmas= 

Behold, I bring you good tidings of a great joy, which shall be
to all people.  For unto you is born this day in the city of
David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord.  =Luke 2:10, 11= 

Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself
shall be with them, and be their God.  =Revelation 21:3= 

<page 38> 


=Epiphany= 

The Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the bright-
ness of thy rising.  =Isaiah 60:3= 

I will give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be
my salvation unto the end of the earth.  =Isaiah 49:6b= 

From the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the
same my Name shall be great among the Gentiles, and in 
every place incense shall be offered unto my Name, and a 
pure offering: for my Name shall be great among the heathen, 
saith the Lord of hosts.  =Malachi 1:11= 


=Lent= 

If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the 
truth is not in us, but if we confess our sins, God is faithful
and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all
unrighteousness.  =1 John 1:8, 9= 

Rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the 
Lord your God; for he is gracious and merciful, slow to 
anger and of great kindness, and repenteth him of evil.  
=Joel 2:13= 

I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him,
"Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee; and
am no more worthy to be called thy son."  =Luke 15:18, 19= 

To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, 
though we have rebelled against him; neither have we obeyed 
the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws which he
set before us.  =Daniel 9:9, 10= 

Jesus said, "Whosoever will come after me, let him deny
himself, and take up his cross, and follow me."  =Mark 8:34= 

<page 38> 


=Holy Week= 

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one
to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of
us all.  =Isaiah 53:6= 

Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by?  Behold and see if
there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow which is done unto
me, wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me.  =Lamentations 1:12= 


=Easter Season, including Ascension Day and the Day of 
Pentecost= 

Alleluia! Christ is risen.
=The Lord is risen indeed. Alleluia!= 

This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and 
be glad in it.  =Psalm 118:24= 

Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our 
Lord Jesus Christ.  =1 Corinthians 15:57= 

If ye then be risen with Christ, seek the things which are
above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.
=Colossians 3:1= 

Christ is not entered into a the holy places made with hands,
which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now 
to appear in the presence of God for us.  =Hebrews 9:24= 

Ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost is come
upon you; and ye shall be witness unto me both in 
Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the 
uttermost part of the earth.  =Acts 1:8= 


=Trinity Sunday= 

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and
is to come.  =Revelation 4:8= 

<page 40> 


=All Saints and other Major Saints' Days= 

We give thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to
be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light.  
=Colossians 1:12= 

Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens 
with the saints and of the household of God.  =Ephesians 2:19= 

Their sound is gone out into all lands, and their words into
the ends of the world.  =Psalm 19:4= 


=Occasions of Thanksgiving= 

O give thanks unto the Lord, and call upon his Name; tell the
people what things he hath done.  =Psalm 105:1= 


=At any Time= 

Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and 
from the Lord Jesus Christ.  =Phillipians 1:2= 

I was glad when they said unto me, "We will go into the 
house of the Lord."  =Psalm 122:1= 

Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart,
be alway acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and 
my redeemer.  =Psalm 19:14= 

O send out thy light and thy truth, that they may lead me,
and bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy dwelling.
=Psalm 43:3= 

The Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence
before him.  =Habakkuk 2:20= 

The hour is cometh, and now is, when the true worshipers
shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father 
seeketh such to worship him.  =John 4:23= 

Thus saith the high and lofty One who inhabiteth eternity,
<page 41>
whose name is Holy, "I dwell in the high and holy place, with
him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the 
spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite
ones."  =Isaiah 57:15= 


*The following Confession of Sin may then be said; or the Office may
continue at once with "O Lord, open thou our lips." 


<Confession of Sin> 

*The Officiant says to the people* 

Dearly beloved, we have come together in the presence of
Almighty God our heavenly Father, to render thanks for the
great benefits that we have received at his hands, to set forth
his most worthy praise, to hear this holy Word, and to ask, for
ourselves and on behalf of others, those things that are 
necessary for our life and our salvation.  And so that we may 
prepare ourselves in heart and mind to worship him, let us 
kneel in silence, and with penitent and obedient hearts 
confess our sins, that we may obtain forgiveness by his 
infinite goodness and mercy. 

*or this* 

Let us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God. 

*Silence may be kept.* 

*Officiant and People together, all kneeling* 

Almighty and most merciful Father,
we have erred and strayed from thy ways like lost sheep,
we have followed too much the devices and desires of our
/own hearts,
we have offended against thy holy laws,
we have left undone those things which we ought to
/have done,
<page 42>
and we have done those things which we ought not to
/have done.
But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us,
spare thou those who confess their faults,
restore thou those who are penitent,
according to thy promises declared unto mankind
in Christ Jesus our Lord;
and grant, O most merciful Father, for his sake,
that we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life,
to the glory of thy holy Name.  Amen.


*The Priest alone stands and says* 

The Almighty and merciful Lord grant you absolution and
remission of all your sins, true repentance, amendment of
life, and the grace and consolation of his Holy Spirit.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form remains kneeling, and
substitutes "us" for "you" and "our" for "your." 


<The Invitatory and Psalter> 

*All stand* 

*Officiant* O Lord, open thou our lips.
*People*  And our mouth shall show forth thy praise. 


*Officiant and People* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*Except in Lent,*  Alleluia. *may be added.*


*Then follows one of the Invitatory Psalms, Venite or Jubilate.* 

<page 43>

*One of the following Antiphons may be sung or said with the Invitatory
Psalm* 

*In Advent* 

Our King and Savior now draweth nigh:  O come, let us adore him. 


*On the Twelve Days of Christmas* 

Alleluia.  Unto us a child is born:  O come, let us adore him.  
Alleluia. 


*From the Epiphany through the Baptism of Christ, and on the Feasts of
the Transfiguration and Holy Cross* 

The Lord hath manifested forth his glory:  O come, let us 
adore him. 


*In Lent* 

The Lord is full of compassion and mercy:  O come, let us
adore him. 


*From Easter Day until the Ascension* 

Alleluia.  The Lord is risen indeed:  O come, let us adore him.
Alleluia. 


*From Ascension Day until the Day of Pentecost* 

Alleluia.  Christ the Lord ascendedeth into heaven:  O come,
 let us adore him. Alleluia. 


*On the Day of Pentecost* 

Alleluia.  The Spirit of the Lord filleth the world:  O come, 
let us adore him.  Alleluia. 


*On Trinity Sunday* 

Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, one God:  O come, let us 
adore him. 

<page 44>

*On other Sundays and weekdays* 

The earth is the Lord's for he made it:  O come, let us 
adore him. 

*or this* 

Worship the Lord in the beauty of his holiness:  O come, let us
adore him. 

*or this* 

The mercy of the Lord is everlasting:  O come, let us adore him. 


*The Alleluias in the following Antiphons are used only in Easter 
Season.* 


*On Feasts of the Incarnation* 

[Alleluia.] The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us:  O come, let us 
adore him. [Alleluia.] 

*On all Saints and other Major Saints' Days* 

[Alleluia.]  The Lord is glorious in his saints:  O come, let us
adore him.  [Alleluia.] 


<Venite>  =Psalm 95:1-7= 

O come, let us sing unto the Lord; *
 let us heartily rejoice in the strength of our salvation. 

Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving *
 and show ourselves glad in him with psalms. 


For the Lord is a great God, *
 and a great King above all gods. 

In his hand are the corners of the earth, *
 and the strength of the hills is his also. 

The sea is his, and he made it, *
 and his hands prepared the dry land. 

<page 45>

O come, let us worship and fall down, *
 and kneel before the Lord our Maker. 

For he is the Lord our God, *
 and we are the people of his pasture 
 and the sheep of his hand. 


O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; *
 let the whole earth stand in awe of him.

For he cometh, for he cometh to judge the world
 and with righteousness to judge the world
 and the peoples with his truth.

*or Psalm 95, page 146.* 


<Jubilate>  =Psalm 100= 

Be joyful in the Lord, all ye lands; *
 serve the Lord with gladness
 and come before his presence with a song. 

Be ye sure that the Lord he is God; *
 it is he that hath made us and we ourselves;
 we are his people and the sheep of his pasture. 

O go your way into his gates with thanksgiving
and into his courts with praise; *
 be thankful unto him and speak good of his Name. 

For the Lord is gracious;
his mercy is everlasting; *
 and his truth endureth from generation to generation. 

*In Easter Week, in place of an Invitatory Psalm, the following is sung 
or said.  It may also be used daily until the Day of Pentecost.* 

<page 46>


<Christ our Passover>  =Pascha nostrum= 

=1 Corinthians 5:7-8; Romans 6:9-11; 1 Corinthians 15:20-22= 

Alleluia.
Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us; *
 therefore let us keep the feast, 

Not with old leaven, 
neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, *
 but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.  Alleluia. 


Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; *
 death hath no more dominion over him. 

For in that he died, he died unto sin once; *
 but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. 

Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, *
 but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.  Alleluia. 


Christ is risen from the dead, *
 and become the first fruits of them that slept.

For since by man came death, *
 by man came also the resurrection of the dead. 

For as in Adam all die, *
 even so in Christ shall all be made alive.  Alleluia. 


*Then follows* 


<The Psalm or Psalms Appointed> 

*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

<page 47>


<The Lessons> 

*One or two lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader first saying*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash.. 

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.* 


*After each Lesson the Reader may say* 

The Word of the Lord. 

*Answer* Thanks be to God. 

*Or the Reader may say* Here endeth the Lesson (Reading). 

*Silence may be kept after each Reading.  One of the following 
Canticles, or one of those on pages 85-95 (Canticles 8-21), is sung or 
said after each Reading.  If three Lessons are used, the Lesson from the 
Gospel is read after the second Canticle.* 


<Canticle 1>  A Song of Creation  =Benedicite, omnia opera Domini=

=Song of the Three Young Men, 35-65=

=I Invocation=

O all ye works of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.

O ye angels of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


=II The Cosmic Order=

O ye heavens, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye waters that be above the firmament, bless ye the Lord;

O all ye powers of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.

<page 48>

O ye sun and moon, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye stars of heaven, bless ye the Lord;

O ye showers and dew, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


O ye winds of God, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye fire and heat, bless ye the Lord;

O ye winter and summer, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


O ye dews and frosts, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye frost and cold, bless ye the Lord;

O ye ice and snow, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


O ye nights and days, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye light and darkness, bless ye the Lord;

O ye lightnings and clouds, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


=III The Earth and its Creatures=

O let the earth bless the Lord; *
 O ye mountains and hills, bless ye the Lord;

O all ye green things upon the earth, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


O all ye fowls of the air, bless ye the Lord; *
 O all ye beasts and cattle, bless ye the Lord;

O ye children of men, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.

<page 49>

=IV  The People of God=

O ye people of God, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye priests of the Lord, bless ye the Lord;

O ye servants of the Lord, bless ye the Lord; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


O ye spirits and souls of the righteous, bless ye the Lord; *
 O ye holy and humble men of heart, bless ye the Lord.

Let us bless the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit; *
 praise him and magnify him for ever.


<Canticle 2>  A Song of Praise  =Benedictus es, Domine=

=Song of the Three Young Men, 29-34=

Blessed art thou, O Lord God of our fathers; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed are thou for the name of thy Majesty; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed are thou in the temple of thy holiness; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed are thou that beholdest the depths,
and dwellest between the Cherubim; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed art thou on the glorious throne of thy kingdom; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed are thou in the firmament of heaven; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.

Blessed are thou, O Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; *
 praised and exalted above all for ever.


<Canticle 3>  The Song of Mary  =Magnificat=

=Luke 1:46-55=

My soul doth magnify the Lord, *
 and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior.

For he hath regarded *
 the lowliness of his handmaiden.

For behold from henceforth *
 all generations shall call me blessed.

For he that is mighty hath magnified me, *
 and holy is his Name.

And his mercy is on them that fear him *
 throughout all generations.

He hath showed strength with his arm; *
 he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.

He hath put down the mighty from their seat, *
 and hath exalted the humble and meek.

He hath filled the hungry with good things, *
 and the rich he hath sent empty away.

He remembering his mercy hath holpen his servant Israel, *
 as he promised to our forefathers,
 Abraham and his seed for ever.

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.


<Canticle 4>  The Song of Zechariah  =Benedictus Dominus Deus=

=Luke 1:68-79=

Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, *
 for he hath visited and redeemed his people;

And hath raised up a mighty salvation for us *
 in the house of his servant David,

As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, *
 which have been since the world began:

<page 51>

That we should be saved from our enemies, *
 and from the hand of all that hate us;

To perform the mercy promised to our forefathers, *
 and to remember his holy covenant;

To perform the oath which he sware to our forefather Abraham, *
 that he would give us,

That we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies *
 might serve him without fear,

In holiness and righteousness before him, *
 all the days of our life.

And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest, *
 for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord
/to prepare his ways;

To give knowledge of salvation unto his people *
 for the remission of their sins,

Through the tender mercy of our God, *
 whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us;

To give light to them that sit in darkness
and in the shadow of death, *
 and to guide our feet into the way of peace.


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.


<Canticle 5>  The Song of Solomon  =Nunc dimittis=

=Luke 2:29-32=

Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, *
 according to thy word;

For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, *
 which thou hast prepared before the face of all people,

To be a light to lighten the Gentiles, *
 and to be the glory of thy people Israel.

<page 51>

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.


<Canticle 6>  Glory be to God  =Gloria in Excelsis=

Glory be to God on high,
 and on earth peace, good will towards mean.

We praise thee, we bless thee,
 we worship thee,
 we glorify thee,
 we give thanks to thee for thy great glory,

O Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty.


O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ;
O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father,
 that takest away the sins of the world,
 have mercy upon us.

Thou that takest away the sins of the world,
 receive our prayer.

Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father,
 have mercy upon us.


For thou only art holy,
thou only art the Lord,
thou only, O Christ,
 with the Holy Ghost,
 art most high in the glory of God the Father.  Amen.


<Canticle 7>  We Praise Thee  =Te Deum laudamus=

We praise thee, O God; we acknoledge thee to be the Lord.
All the earth doth worship thee, the Father everlasting.
To thee all Angels cry aloud,
the Heavens and all the Powers therein.
To thee Cherubim and Seraphim continually do cry:
 Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Sabaoth;
 Heaven and earth are full of the majesty of thy glory.

The glorious company of the apostles praise thee.
The goodly fellowship of the prophets praise thee.
The noble army of martyrs praise thee.
The holy Church throughout all the world
/doth acknowledge thee,
 the Father, of an infinite majesty,
 thine adorable, true, and only Son,
 also the Holy Ghost the Comforter.


Thou art the King of glory, O Christ.
Thou art the everlasting Son of the Father.
When thou tookest upon thee to deliver man,
thou didst humble thyself to be born of a Virgin.
When thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death,
thou didst open the kingdom of heaven to all believers.
Thou sittest at the right hand of God, in the glory of the Father.
We believe that thou shalt come to be our judge.
 We therefore pray thee, help thy servants,
 whom thou hast redeemed with thy precious blood.
 Make them to be numbered with thy saints,
 in glory everlasting.


<The Apostles' Creed>

*Officiant and People together, all standing*

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
 maker of heaven and earth;

And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord;
 who was conceived by the Holy Ghost,
 born of the Virgin Mary,
 suffered under Pontius Pilate,
 was crucified, dead, and buried.
 He descended into hell.
<page 54>
 The third day he rose again from the dead.
 He ascended into heaven,
 and sitteth on the right hand of God the Father almighty.
 From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting.  Amen.

*The text of the Creed on page 96 may be used instead.*


<The Prayers> 

*The People stand or kneel* 

*Officiant*  The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 

*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
 on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our tresspasses,
 as we forgive those
 who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 


*Then follows one of these sets of Suffrages* 

<Suffrages A> 

&V.  O Lord, show thy mercy upon us; 

&R.  And grant us thy salvation. 

&V.  Endue thy ministers with righteousness; 

&R.  And make thy chosen people joyful. 

&V.  Give peace, O Lord, in all the world; 

&R.  For only in thee can we live in safety. 

&V.  Lord, keep this nation under thy care; 

&R.  And guide us in the way of justice and truth. 

&V.  Let thy way be known upon earth; 

&R.  Thy saving health among all nations. 

&V.  Let not the needy, O Lord, be forgotten; 

&R.  Nor the hope of the poor be taken away. 

&V.  Create in us clean hearts, O God; 

&R.  And sustain us with your Holy Spirit. 


<Suffrages B> 

&V.  O Lord, save thy people and bless thine heritage; 

&R.  Govern them and lift them up for ever. 

&V.  Day by day we magnify thee; 

&R.  And we worship thy name for ever, world without end. 

&V.  Vouchsafe, O Lord, to keep us this day without sin; 

&R.  O Lord, have mercy upon us, hve mercy upon us. 

&V.  O Lord, let thy mercy be upon us; 

&R.  As our trust is in thee. 

&V.  O Lord, in thee have I trusted; 

&R.  Let me never be confounded. 


*The Officiant then says one or more of the following Collects* 

*The Collect of the Day* 

<page 55>


*A Collect for Sundays* 

O God, who makest us glad with the weekly remembrance of
the glorious resurrection of thy Son our Lord:  Grant us this
day such blessing through our worship of thee, that the days
to come may be spent in thy favor; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Fridays* 

Almighty God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he
was crucified:  Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way
of the cross, may find it none other than the way of life and
peace; through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Saturdays* 

Almighty God, who after the creation of the world didst rest
from all thy works and sanctify a day of rest for all thy
creatures:  Grant that we, putting away all earthly anxieties,
may be duly prepared for the service of thy sanctuary, and
that our rest here upon earth may be a preparation for the
eternal rest promised to thy people in heaven; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for the Renewal of Life* 

O God, the King eternal, who dividest the day from the
night and turnest the shadow of death into the morning:  
Drive far from us all wrong desires, incline our hearts to keep 
thy law, and guide our feet into the way of peace; that, 
having done thy will with cheerfulness while it was day, we 
may, when night cometh, rejoice to give thee thanks; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 57>


*A Collect for Peace* 

O God, who art the author of peace and lover of concord,
in knowledge of whom standeth our eternal life, whose service
is perfect freedom:  Defend us, thy humble servants, in all 
assaults of our enemies; that we, surely trusting in thy
defense, may not fear the power of any adversaries; through 
the might of Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Grace* 

O Lord, our heavenly Father, almighty and everlasting God,
who hast safely brought us to the beginning of this day:
Defend us in the same with thy mighty power; and grant that
this day we fall into no sin, neither run into any kind of
danger; but that we, being ordered by thy governance, may
do always what is righteous in thy sight; through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=


*A Collect for Guidance* 

O heavenly Father, in whom we live and move and have our
being:  We humbly pray thee so to guide and govern us by thy
Holy Spirit, that in all the cares and occupations of our life
we may not forget thee, but may remember that we are ever
walking in thy sight; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*Then, unless the Eucharist or a form of general intercession is to 
follow, one of these prayers for mission is added* 

Almighty and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole
body of thy faithful people is governed and sanctified:
Receive our supplications and prayers which we offer before
thee for all members of thy holy Church, that in their
vocation and ministry they may truly and godly serve thee;
through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.= 

*or the following*

<page 58>

O God, who hast made of one blood all the peoples of the
earth, and didst send thy blessed Son to preach peace to those
who are far off and to those who are near:  Grant that people
everywhere may seek after thee and find thee; bring the
nations into thy fold; pour out thy Spirit upon all flesh; and
hasten the coming of thy kingdom; through the same thy
Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Lord Jesus Christ, who didst stretch out thine arms of love 
on the hard wood of the cross that everyone might come 
within the reach of thy saving embrace:  So clothe us in thy
Spirit that we, reaching forth our hands in love, may bring 
those who do not know thee to the knowledge and love of 
you; for the honor of thy Name.  =Amen.= 

*Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.* 

*Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.* 


*Before the close of the Office one or both of the following may be  
used* 


*The General Thanksgiving* 

*Officiant and People* 

Almighty God, Father of all mercies,
we thine unworthy servants 
do give thee most humble and hearty thanks
for all thy goodness and loving-kindness
to us and to all men.
We bless thee for our creation, preservation,
and all the blessings of this life;
but above all for thine inestimable love
in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ;
for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory.
<page 59>
And, we beseech thee, 
give us that due sense of all thy mercies,
that our hearts may be unfaignedly thankful;
and that we show forth thy praise,
not only with our lips, but in our lives,
by giving up our selves to thy service,
and by walking before thee
in holiness and righteousness all our days;
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
to whom, with thee and the Holy Spirit,
be all honor and glory, world without end.  =Amen.= 


*A Prayer of St. Chrysostom* 

Almighty God, who hast given us grace at this time with one
accord to make our common supplication unto thee; and
hast promised through thy well-beloved Son that when two
or three are gathered together in his Name thou wilt be in the 
midst of them:  Fulfill now, O Lord, our desires and petitions
of thy servants as may be best for us; granting us in this 
world knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come life 
everlasting.  =Amen.= 


*Then may be said* 

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.= 

*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" may
be added to the preceding versicle and response.* 


*The Officiant may then conclude with one of the following* 

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and
the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore.
=Amen.=  =2 Corinthians 13:14= 

<page 60>

May the God of hope fill us with all joy and peace in
believing through the power of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=
=Romans 15:13= 

Glory to God whose power, working in us, can do infinitely
more than we can ask or imagine:  Glory to him from
generation to generation in the Church, and in Christ Jesus
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=  =Ephesians 3:20,21= 



<Daily Evening Prayer:  
Rite One>

*The Officiant begins the service with one or more of the following
sentences of Scripture, or of those on pages 37-40;*

*or with the Service of Light on pages 109-112, and continuing with the
appointed Psalmody;*

*or with the versicle "O God, make speed to save us" on page 63.

Let my payer be set forth in thy sight as the incense, and let
the lifting up of my hands be an evening sacrifice.
=Psalm 141:2=

Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and
from the Lord Jesus Christ.  =Philippians 1:2=

O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; let the whole
earth stand in awe of him.  =Psalm 96:9=

Thine is the day, O God, thine also the night; thou hast
established the moon and the sun.  Thou hast fixed all the
boundries of the earth; thou hast made summer and winter.
=Psalm 74:15,16=

I will bless the Lord, who giveth me counsel; my heart
teacheth me, night after night.  I have set the Lord always
before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not fall.
=Psalm 16:7,8=

<page 62>

Seek him that made the Pleides and Orion, that turneth deep
darkness into the morning, and darkeneth the day into night;
that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out
upon the face of the earth:  The Lord is his Name.  =Amos 5:8=

If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me, and the light
around me turn to night," darkness is not dark to thee, O Lord;
the night is as bright as the day; darkness and light to thee
are both alike.  =Psalm 139:10,11=

Jesus said, "I am the light of the world; he that followeth me
shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life."
=John 8:12=


*The following Confession of Sin may then be said; or the Office may
continue at once with "O God make speed to save us."


<Confession of Sin> 

*The Officiant says to the people* 

Dear friends in Christ, here in the presence of Almighty God,
let us kneel in silence, and with penitent and obedient hearts
confess our sins, so that we may obtain forgiveness by his
infinite goodness and mercy.

*or this* 

Let us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God. 

*Silence may be kept.* 

*Officiant and People together, all kneeling* 

Almighty and most merciful Father,
we have erred and strayed from thy ways like lost sheep,
we have followed too much the devices and desires of our
/own hearts,
we have offended against thy holy laws,
we have left undone those things which we ought to
/have done,
and we have done those things which we ought not to
/have done.
But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us,
spare thou those who confess their faults,
restore thou those who are penitent,
according to thy promises declared unto mankind
in Christ Jesus our Lord;
and grant, O most merciful Father, for his sake,
that we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life,
to the glory of thy holy Name.  Amen.


*The Priest alone stands and says* 

The Almighty and merciful Lord grant you absolution and
remission of all your sins, true repentance, amendment of
life, and the grace and consolation of his Holy Spirit.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form remains kneeling, and
substitutes "us" for "you" and "our" for "your." 


<The Invitatory and Psalter>

*All stand* 

*Officiant*  O God, make speed to save us.

*People*  O Lord, make haste to help us.


*Officiant and People*

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:  as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.

*Except in Lent,*  Alleluia *may be added.*

<page 64>

*The following, or some other suitable hymn, or an Invitatory Psalm, may
be sung or said*


<O Gracious Light>  =Phos hilaron=

O gracious Light,
pure brightness of the everliving Father in heaven,
O Jesus Christ, holy and blessed!

Now as we come to the setting of the sun,
and our eyes behold the vesper light,
we sing thy praises, O God:  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

Thou art worthy at all times to be praised by happy voices,
O Son of God, O Giver of life,
and to be glorified though all the worlds.

*then follows*


<The Psalm or Psalms Appointed> 

*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<The Lessons> 

*One or two lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader first saying*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash.. 

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.* 

<page 65>

*After each Lesson the Reader may say* 

The Word of the Lord. 

*Answer* Thanks be to God. 

*Or the Reader may say* Here endeth the Lesson (Reading). 

*Silence may be kept after each Reading.  One of the following 
Canticles, or one of those on pages 47-52, or 85-95, is sung or said 
after each Reading.  If three Lessons are used, the Lesson from the 
Gospel is read after the second Canticle.* 


<The Song of Mary>  =Magnificat=
=Luke 1:46-55=

My soul doth magnify the Lord, *
 and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior.

For he hath regarded *
 the lowliness of his handmaiden.

For behold from henceforth *
 all generations shall call me blessed.

For he that is mighty hath magnified me, *
 and holy is his Name.

And his mercy is on them that fear him *
 throughout all generations.

He hath showed strength with his arm; *
 he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.

He hath put down the mighty from their seat, *
 and hath exalted the humble and meek.

He hath filled the hungry with good things, *
 and the rich he hath sent empty away.

He remembering his mercy hath holpen his servant Israel, *
 as he promised to our forefathers,
 Abraham and his seed for ever.


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.

<page 66>


<The Song of Solomon>  =Nunc dimittis=
=Luke 2:29-32=

Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, *
 according to thy word;

For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, *
 which thou hast prepared before the face of all people,

To be a light to lighten the Gentiles, *
 and to be the glory of thy people Israel.


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.


<The Apostle's Creed>

*Officiant and People together, all standing*

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
 maker of heaven and earth;

And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord;
 who was conceived by the Holy Ghost,
 born of the Virgin Mary,
 suffered under Pontius Pilate,
 was crucified, dead, and buried.
 He descended into hell.
 The third day he rose again from the dead.
 He ascended into heaven,
 and sitteth on the right hand of God the Father almighty.
 From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting.  Amen.

*The text of the Creed on page 96 may be used instead.*

<page 67>


<The Prayers> 

*The People stand or kneel* 

*Officiant*  The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 

*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
 on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our tresspasses,
 as we forgive those
 who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 


*Then follows one of these sets of Suffrages* 


<Suffrages A> 

&V.  O Lord, show thy mercy upon us; 

&R.  And grant us thy salvation. 

&V.  Endue thy ministers with righteousness; 

&R.  And make thy chosen people joyful. 

&V.  Give peace, O Lord, in all the world; 

&R.  For only in thee can we live in safety. 

&V.  Lord, keep this nation under thy care; 

&R.  And guide us in the way of justice and truth. 

<page 68>

&V.  Let thy way be known upon earth; 

&R.  Thy saving health among all nations. 

&V.  Let not the needy, O Lord, be forgotten; 

&R.  Nor the hope of the poor be taken away. 

&V.  Create in us clean hearts, O God; 

&R.  And sustain us with your Holy Spirit. 


<Suffrages B> 

That this evening may be holy, good, and peaceful,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=

That thy holy angels may lead us in paths of peace and
goodwill,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=

That we may be pardoned and forgiven for our sins
and offenses,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=

That there may be peace to thy Church and to the whole
world,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=

That we may depart this life in thy faith and fear, and
not be condemned before the great judgment seat
of Christ,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=

That we may be bound together by thy Holy Spirit in
the communion of [&mdash. and] all thy saints,
entrusting one another and all our life to Christ,
=We entreat thee, O Lord.=


*The Officiant then says one or more of the following Collects*

*The Collect of the Day*

<page 69>

*A Collect for Sundays* 

Lord God, whose Son our Savior Jesus Christ triumphed
over the powers of death and prepared for us our place in the
new Jerusalem:  Grant that we, who have this day given
thanks for his resurrection, may praise thee in that City of
which he is the light; and where he liveth and reigneth for ever
and ever.  =Amen.=


*A Collect for Fridays* 

O Lord Jesus Christ, who by thy death didst take away the
sting of death:  Grant unto us thy servants so to follow in
faith where thou hast led the way, that we may at length fall
asleep peacefully in thee, and awake up after thy likeness; for
thy tender mercies' sake.  =Amen.=


*A Collect for Saturdays* 

O God, the source of eternal light:  Shed forth thine unending
day upon us who watch for thee, that our lips may praise thee,
our lives may bless thee, and our worship on the morrow may
give thee glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*A Collect for Peace* 

O God, from whom all holy desires, all good counsels, and
all just works do proceed:  Give unto thy servants that peace
which the world cannot give, that our hearts may be set to
obey thy commandments, and also that by thee, we, being
defended from the fear of all enemies, may pass our time in
rest and quietness; through the merits of Jesus Christ our
Savior.  =Amen.=

<page 70>


*A Collect for Aid against Perils*

Lighten our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy
great mercy defend us from all perils





*Then, unless the Eucharist or a form of general intercession is to 
follow, one of these prayers for mission is added* 



*Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.* 

*Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.* 


*Before the close of the Office one or both of the following may be  
used* 


*The General Thanksgiving* 

*Officiant and People* 

Almighty God, Father of all mercies,
we thine unworthy servants 
do give thee most humble and hearty thanks
for all thy goodness and loving-kindness
to us and to all men.
We bless thee for our creation, preservation,
and all the blessings of this life;
but above all for thine inestimable love
in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ;
for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory.
And, we beseech thee, 
give us that due sense of all thy mercies,
that our hearts may be unfaignedly thankful;
<page 72>
and that we show forth thy praise,
not only with our lips, but in our lives,
by giving up our selves to thy service,
and by walking before thee
in holiness and righteousness all our days;
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
to whom, with thee and the Holy Spirit,
be all honor and glory, world without end.  =Amen.= 


*A Prayer of St. Chrysostom* 

Almighty God, who hast given us grace at this time with one
accord to make our common supplication unto thee; and
hast promised through thy well-beloved Son that when two
or three are gathered together in his Name thou wilt be in the 
midst of them:  Fulfill now, O Lord, our desires and petitions
of thy servants as may be best for us; granting us in this 
world knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come life 
everlasting.  =Amen.= 


*Then may be said* 

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.= 

*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" may
be added to the preceding versicle and response.* 


*The Officiant may then conclude with one of the following* 

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and
the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore.
=Amen.=  =2 Corinthians 13:14= 

<page 73>

May the God of hope fill us with all joy and peace in
believing through the power of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=
=Romans 15:13= 

Glory to God whose power, working in us, can do infinitely
more than we can ask or imagine:  Glory to him from
generation to generation in the Church, and in Christ Jesus
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=  =Ephesians 3:20,21= 

<page 74> 

*Concerning the Service* 

*In the Daily Office, the term "Officiant" is used to denote the person,
clerical or lay, who leads the Office.* 

*It is appropriate that other persons be assigned to read the Lessons, 
and to lead other parts of the service not assigned to the officiant.  
The bishop, when present, appropriately concludes the Office with a 
blessing.* 

*At celebrations of the Holy Eucharist, the Order for Morning or Evening
Prayer may be used in place of all that precedes the Offeratory.* 

*Additional Directions are on page 141.* 

<page 75> 



<Daily Morning Prayer:
Rite Two>

*The Officiant begins the service with one or more of these sentences of
Scripture, or with the versicle "Lord, open our lips" on page 80.* 


=Advent= 

Watch, for you do not know when the master of the house
will come, in the evening, or at midnight, or at cockcrow, or
in the morning, lest he come suddenly and find you asleep.
=Mark 13:35, 36= 

In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord, make straight
in the desert a highway for our God.  =Isaiah 40:3= 

The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see
it together.  =Isaiah 40:5= 


=Christmas= 

Behold, I bring you good news of a great joy which will come
to all the people; for to you is born this day in the city of
David, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.  =Luke 2:10, 11= 

Behold, the dwelling of God is with mankind.  He will dwell
with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will
be with them, and be their God.  =Revelation 21:3= 

<page 76> 


=Epiphany= 

Nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness
of your rising.  =Isaiah 60:3= 

I will give you as a light to the nations, that my salvation may
reach to the end of the earth.  =Isaiah 49:6b= 

From the rising of the sun to its setting my Name shall be great
among the nations, and in every place incense shall be offered
to my Name, and a pure offering; for my Name shall be great
among the nations, says the Lord of hosts.  =Malachi 1:11= 


=Lent= 

If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
is not in us, but if we confess our sins, God, who is faithful
and just, will forgive our sins and cleanse us from all
unrighteousness.  =1 John 1:8, 9= 

Rend your hearts and not your garments.  Return to the Lord
your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and
abounding in steadfast love, and repents of evil.  =Joel 2:13= 

I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him,
"Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am
no longer worthy to be called your son."  =Luke 15:18, 19= 

To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, because
we have rebelled against him and have not obeyed the voice
of the Lord our God by following his laws which he set
before us.  =Daniel 9:9, 10= 

Jesus said, "If anyone would come after me, let him deny
himself and take up his cross and follow me."  =Mark 8:34= 


=Holy Week= 

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one
<page 77>
to his own way; and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of
us all.  =Isaiah 53:6= 

Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by?  Look and see if
there is any sorrow like my sorrow which was brought upon
me, whom the Lord has afflicted.  =Lamentations 1:12= 


=Easter Season, including Ascension Day
and the Day of Pentecost= 

Alleluia! Christ is risen.
=The Lord is risen indeed. Alleluia!= 

On this day the Lord has acted; we will rejoice and be glad in
it.  =Psalm 118:24= 

Thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord
Jesus Christ.  =1 Corinthians 15:57= 

If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that
are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God.
=Colossians 3:1= 

Christ has entered, not into a sanctuary made with hands, a
copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear in
the presence of God on our behalf.  =Hebrews 9:24= 

You shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon
you; and you shall be my witness in Jerusalem, and in all
Judea, and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.  =Acts 1:8= 


=Trinity Sunday= 

Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was, and is,
and is to come!  =Revelation 4:8= 


=All Saints and other Major Saints' Days= 

We give thanks to the Father, who has made us worthy to
share in the inheritance of the saints in light.  =Colossians 1:12= 

<page 78> 

You are no longer strangers and sojourners, but fellow
citizens with the saints and members of the household of
God.  =Ephesians 2:19= 

Their sound has gone out into all lands, and their message to
the ends of the world.  =Psalm 19:4= 


=Occasions of Thanksgiving= 

Give thanks to the Lord, and call upon his Name; make
known his deeds among the peoples.  =Psalm 105:1= 


=At any Time= 

Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord
Jesus Christ.  =Philippians 1:2= 

I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go to the house of
the Lord."  =Psalm 122:1= 

Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart
be acceptable in you sight, O Lord, my strength and my
redeemer.  =Psalm 19:14= 

Send out your light and your truth, that they may lead me,
and bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling.
=Psalm 43:3= 

The Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep silence
before him.  =Habakkuk 2:20= 

The hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers
will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for such the
Father seeks to worship him.  =John 4:23= 

Thus says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity,
whose name is Holy, "I dwell in the high and holy place and
also with the one who has a contrite and humble spirit, to
revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the 
contrite."  =Isaiah 57:15= 

<page 79> 

*The following Confession of Sin may then be said; or the Office may
continue at once with "Lord, open our lips." 


<Confession of Sin> 

*The Officiant says to the people* 

Dearly beloved, we have come together in the presence of
Almighty God our heavenly Father, to set forth his praise, to
hear his holy Word, and to ask, for ourselves and on behalf
of others, those things that are necessary for our life and our
salvation.  And so that we may prepare ourselves in heart and
mind to worship him, let us kneel in silence, and with
penitent and obedient hearts confess our sins, that we may
obtain forgiveness by his infinite goodness and mercy. 

*or this* 

Let us confess our sins against God and our neighbor. 

*Silence may be kept.* 

*Officiant and People together, all kneeling* 

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves.
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent.
For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen. 

<page 80> 

*The Priest stands and says* 

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all
goodness, and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in
eternal life.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form remains kneeling, and
substitutes "us" for "you" and "our" for "your." 


<The Invitatory and Psalter> 

*All stand* 

*Officiant* Lord, open our lips.
*People*  And our mouth shall proclaim your praise. 

*Officiant and People* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*Except in Lent, add*  Alleluia. 


*Then follows one of the Invitatory Psalms, Venite or Jubilate.* 

*One of the following Antiphons may be sung or said with the Invitatory
Psalm* 


*In Advent* 

Our King and Savior now draws near:  Come let us adore him. 


*On the Twelve Days of Christmas* 

Alleluia.  To us a child is born:  Come let us adore him.  Alleluia. 

<page 81> 

*From the Epiphany through the Baptism of Christ, and on the Feasts of
the Transfiguration and Holy Cross* 

The Lord has shown forth his glory:  Come let us adore him. 


*In Lent* 

The Lord is full of compassion and mercy:  Come let us
adore him. 


*From Easter Day until the Ascension* 

Alleluia.  The Lord is risen indeed:  Come let us adore him.
Alleluia. 


*From Ascension Day until the Day of Pentecost* 

Alleluia.  Christ has ascended into heaven:  Come let us adore him.
Alleluia. 


*On the Day of Pentecost* 

Alleluia.  The Spirit of the Lord renews the face of the earth:
Come let us adore him.  Alleluia. 


*On Trinity Sunday* 

Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, one God:  Come let us adore him. 


*On other Sundays and weekdays* 

The earth is the Lord's for he made it:  Come let us adore him. 

*or this* 

Worship the Lord in the beauty of his holiness:  Come let us
adore him. 

*or this* 

The mercy of the Lord is everlasting:  Come let us adore him. 

<page 82> 

*The Alleluias in the following Antiphons are used only in Easter 
Season.* 


*On Feasts of the Incarnation* 

[Alleluia] The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us:
Come let us adore him. [Alleluia] 


*On all Saints and other Major Saints' Days* 

[Alleluia.]  The Lord is glorious in his saints:  Come let us
adore him.  [Alleluia.] 


<Venite>  =Psalm 95:1-7= 

Come let us sing to the Lord; *
 let us shout for joy to the Rock of our salvation. 

Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving *
 and raise a loud shout to him with psalms. 


For the Lord is a great God, *
 and a great King above all gods. 

In his hand are the caverns of the earth, *
 and the heights of the hills are his also. 

The sea is his, for he made it, *
 and his hands have molded the dry land. 


Come, let us bow down, and bend the knee, *
 and kneel before the Lord our Maker. 

For he is our God,
and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. *
 Oh, that today you would hearken to his voice! 

*or Psalm 95, page 724.* 


<Jubilate>  =Psalm 100= 

Be joyful in the Lord, all you lands; *
 serve the Lord with gladness
 and come before his presence with song. 

<page 83> 

Know this:  The Lord himself is God; *
 he himself has made us, and we are his;
 we are his people and the sheep of his pasture. 

Enter his gates with thanksgiving;
go into his courts with praise; *
 give thanks to him and call upon his Name. 

For the Lord is good;
his mercy is everlasting; *
 and his faithfulness endures from age to age. 

*In Easter Week, in place of an Invitatory Psalm, the following is sung 
or said.  It may also be used daily until the Day of Pentecost.* 


<Christ our Passover>  =Pascha nostrum= 

=1 Corinthians 5:7-8; Romans 6:9-11; 1 Corinthians 15:20-22= 

Alleluia.
Christ our Passover has been sacrificed for us; *
 therfore let us keep the feast, 

Not with the old leaven, the leaven of malice and evil, *
 but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.  Alleluia. 


Christ being raised from the dead will never die again; *
 death no longer has dominion over him. 

The death that he died, he died to sin, once for all; *
 but the life he lives, he lives to God. 

So also consider yourselves dead to sin, *
 and alive to God in Jesus Christ our Lord.  Alleluia. 


Christ has been raised from the dead, *
 the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. 

For since by a man came death, *
 by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. 

For as in Adam all die, *
 so also in Christ shall all be made alive.  Alleluia. 

<page 84> 

*Then follows* 

<The Psalm or Psalms Appointed> 

*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<The Lessons> 

*One or two lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader first saying 

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash.. 

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.* 


*After each Lesson the Reader may say* 

The Word of the Lord. 

*Answer* Thanks be to God. 

*Or the Reader may say* Here ends the Lesson (Reading). 


*silence may be kept after each Reading.  One of the following 
Canticles, or one of those on pages 47-52 (Canticles 1-7), is sung or 
said after each Reading.  If three lessons are used, the Lesson from the 
Gospel is read after the second Canticle.* 

<page 85> 


<8 The Song of Moses>  =Cantemus Domino= 

=Exodus 15:1-6, 11-13, 17-18= 

*Especially suitable for use in Easter Season* 

I will sing to the Lord, for he is lofty and uplifted; *
 the horse and its rider has he hurled into the sea. 

The Lord is my strength and my refuge; *
 the Lord has become my Savior. 

This is my God and I will praise him, *
 the God of my people and I will exalt him. 

The Lord is a mighty warrior; *
 Yahweh is his Name. 

The chariots of Pharoah and his army has he hurled into the sea; *
 the finest of those who bear armor have been 
/drowned in the Red Sea. 

The fathomless deep has overwhelmed them; *
 they sank into the depths like a stone. 

Your right hand, O Lord, is glorious in might; *
 your right hand, O Lord, has overthrown the enemy. 

Who can be compared with you, O Lord, among the gods? *
 who is like you, glorious in holiness,
 awesome in renown, and worker of wonders? 

You stretched forth your right hand; *
 the earth swallowed them up. 

With your constant love you led the people you redeemed; *
 with your might you brought them in safety to 
/your holy dwelling. 

You will bring them in and plant them *
 on the mount of your possession, 

The resting-place you have made for yourself, O Lord, *
 the sanctuary, O Lord, that your hand has established. 

The Lord shall reign *
 for ever and for ever. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

<page 86> 


<Canticle 9> The First Song of Isaiah  =Ecce, Deus= 

=Isaiah 12:2-6= 

Surely, it is God who saves me; *
 I will trust in him and not be afraid. 

For the Lord is my stronghold and my sure defense, *
 and he will be my Savior. 

Therefore you shall draw water with rejoicing *
 from the springs of salvation. 

And on that day you shall say, *
 Give thanks to the Lord and call upon his Name; 

Make his deeds known among the peoples; *
 see that they remember that his Name is exalted. 

Sing praises of the Lord, for he has done great things, *
 and this is known in all the world. 

Cry aloud, inhabitants of Zion, ring out your joy, *
 for the great one in the midst of you is the Holy One of Israel. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 10>  The Second Song of Isaiah =Quaerite Dominum= 

=Isaiah 55:6-11= 

Seek the Lord while he wills to be found; *
 call upon him when he draws near. 

Let the wicked forsake their ways *
 and the evil ones their thoughts; 

And let them turn to the Lord, and he will have compassion, *
 and to our God, for he will richly pardon. 

For my thoughts are not your thoughts, *
 nor your ways my ways, says the Lord. 

For as the heavens are higher than the earth, *
 so are my ways higher than your ways,
 and my thoughts than your thoughts. 

<page 87> 

For as rain and snow fall from the heavens *
 and return not again, but water the earth, 

Bringing forth life and giving growth, *
 seed for sowing and bread for eating, 

So is my word that goes forth from my mouth; *
 it will not return to me empty; 

But it will accomplish that which I have purposed, *
 and prosper in that for which I sent it. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

<Canticle 11>  The Third Song of Isaiah  =Surge, illuminare= 

=Isaiah 60:1-3, 11a, 14c, 18-19= 

Arise, shine, for your light has come, *
 and the glory of the Lord has dawned upon you. 

For behold, darkness covers the land; *
 deep gloom enshrouds the peoples. 

But over you the Lord will rise, *
 and his glory will appear upon you. 

Nations will stream to your light, *
 and kings to the brightness of your dawning. 

Your gates will always be open; *
 by day or night they will never be shut. 

They will call you, The City of the Lord, *
 The Zion of the Holy One of Israel. 

Violence will no more be heard in your land, *
 ruin or destruction within your borders. 

You will call your walls, Salvation, *
 and all your portals, Praise. 

The sun will no more be your light by day; *
 by night you will not need the brightness of the moon. 

<page 88> 

The Lord will be your everlasting light, *
 and your God will be your glory. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 12>  A Song of Creation  =Benedicite, omnia opera Domini= 

=Song of the Three Young Men, 35-65= 

*One or more sections of this Canticle may be used.  Whatever the
selection, it begins with the Invocation and concludes with the 
Doxology.*

=Invocation= 

Glorify the Lord, all you works of the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

In the firmament of his power, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


=I  The Cosmic Order= 

Glorify the Lord, you angels and all powers of the Lord, *
 O heavens and all waters above the heavens. 

Sun and moon and stars of the sky, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, every shower of rain and fall of dew, *
 all winds and fire and heat. 

Winter and Summer, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, O chill and cold, *
 drops of dew and flakes of snow> 

Frost and cold, ice and sleet, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, O nights and days, *
 O shining light and enfolding dark. 

Storm clouds and thunderbolts, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


=II  The Earth and its Creatures= 

Let the earth glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

Glorify the Lord, O mountains and hills,
and all that grows upon the earth, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, O springs of water, seas, and streams, *
 O whales and all that move in the waters. 

All birds of the air, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, O beasts of the wild, *
 and all you flocks and herds. 

O men and women everywhere, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


=III  The People of God= 

Let the people of God glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

Glorify the Lord, O priests and servants of the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


Glorify the Lord, O spirits and souls of the righteous, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

You that are holy and humble of heart, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

<page 90> 

=Doxology= 

Let us glorify the Lord:  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 

In the firmament of his power, glorify the Lord, *
 praise him and highly exalt him for ever. 


<Canticle 13>  =Benedictus es, Domine= 

=Song of the Three Young Men, 29-34= 

Glory to you, Lord God of our fathers; *
 you are worthy of praise; glory to you. 

Glory to you for the radiance of you holy Name; *
 we will praise you and highly exalt you for ever. 


Glory to you in the splendor of you temple; *
 on the throne of your majesty, glory to you. 

Glory to you, seated between the Cherubim; *
 we will praise you and highly exalt you for ever. 


Glory to you, beholding the depths; *
 in the high vault of heaven, glory to you. 

Glory to you, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; *
 we will praise you and highly exalt you for ever. 


<Canticle 14>  A Song of Penitence  =Kyrie Pantokrator= 

=Prayer of Manasseh 1-2, 4, 6-7, 11-15= 

*Especially suitable in Lent, and on other penitential occasions* 

O Lord and Ruler of the hosts of heaven, *
 God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
 and of all their righteous offspring: 

You made the heavens and the earth, *
 with all their vast array. 

<page 91> 

All things quake with fear at your presence; *
 they tremble because of your power. 

But your merciful promise is beyond all measure; *
 it surpasses all that our minds can fathom. 

O Lord, you are full of compassion, *
 long-suffering, and abounding in mercy. 

You hold back your hand; *
 you do not punish as we deserve. 

In your great goodness, Lord,
you have promised forgiveness to sinners, *
 that they may repent of their sin and be saved. 

And now, O Lord, I bend the knee of my heart, *
 and make my appeal, sure of your gracious goodness. 

I have sinned, O Lord, I have sinned, *
 and I know my wickedness only too well. 

Therefore I make this prayer to you: *
 Forgive me, Lord, forgive me. 

Do not let me perish in my sin, *
 nor condemn me to the depths of the earth. 

For you, O Lord, are the God of those who repent, *
 and in me you will show forth your goodness. 

Unworthy as I am, you will save me,
in accordance with your great mercy, *
 and I will praise you without ceasing all the days of my life. 

For all the powers of heaven sing your praises, *
 and yours is the glory to ages of ages.  Amen. 


<Canticle 15>  The Song of Mary  =Magnificat= 

=Luke 1:46-55= 

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Savior; *
 for he has looked with favor on his lowly servant. 

<page 92> 

From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
 the Almighty has done great things for me,
 and holy is his Name. 

He has mercy on those who fear him *
 in every generation. 

He has shown the strength of his arm, *
 he has scattered the proud in their conceit. 

He has cast down the mighty from their thrones, *
 and has lifted up the lowly. 

He has filled the hungry with good things, *
 and the rich he has sent away empty. 

He has come to the help of his servant Israel, *
 for he has remembered his promise of mercy, 

The promise he made to our fathers, *
 to Abraham and his children for ever. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 16>  The Song of Zechariah  =Benedictus Dominus Deus= 

=Luke 1: 68-79= 

Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel; *
 he has come to his people and set them free. 

He has raised up for us a mighty savior, *
 born of the house of his servant David. 

Through his holy prophets he promised of old,
that he would save us from our enemies, *
 from the hands of all who hate us. 

He promised to show mercy to our fathers *
 and to remember his holy covenant. 

This was the oath he swore to our father Abraham, *
 to set us free from the hands of our enemies, 

Free to worship him without fear, *
 holy and righteous in his sight
 all the days of our life. 

<page 93> 

You, my child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
 for you will go before the Lord to prepare his way, 

To give his people knowledge of salvation *
 by the forgiveness of their sins. 

In the tender compassion of our God *
 the dawn from on high shall break upon us, 

To shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 17>  The Song of Simeon  =Nunc Dimittis= 

=Luke 2:29-32= 

Lord, you now have set your servant free *
 to go in peace as you have promised; 

For these eyes of mine have seen the Savior, *
 whom you have prepared for all the world to see: 

A Light to enlighten the nations, *
 and the glory of your people Israel. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 18>  A Song to the Lamb  =Dignus es= 

=Revelation 4:11, 5:9-10, 13= 

Splendor and honor and kingly power *
 are yours by right, O Lord our God, 

For you created everything that is, *
 and by your will they were created and have their being; 

<page 94> 

And yours by right, O Lamb that was slain, *
 for with your blood you have redeemed for God, 

From every family, language, people, and nation, *
 a kingdom of priests to serve our God. 


And so, to him who sits upon the throne, *
 and to Christ the Lamb, 

Be worship and praise, dominion and splendor, *
 for ever and for evermore. 


<Canticle 19>  The Song of the Redeemed  =Magna et mirabilia= 

=Revelation 15:3-4= 

O ruler of the universe, Lord God,
great deeds are they that you have done, *
 surpassing human understanding. 

Your ways are ways of righteousness and truth, *
 O King of all the ages. 


Who can fail to do you homage, Lord,
and sing the praises of your Name? *
 for you only are the Holy One. 

All nations will draw near and fall down before you, *
 because your just and holy works have been revealed. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<Canticle 20>  Glory to God  =Gloria in excelsis= 

Glory to God in the highest,
 and peace to his people on earth. 

Lord God, heavenly King,
almighty God and Father,
<page 95>
 we worship you, we give you thanks,
 we praise you for your glory. 

Lord Jesus Christ, only Son of the Father,
Lord God, Lamb of God,
you take away the sin of the world:
 have mercy on us; 

you are seated at the right hand of the Father:
 receive our prayer. 

For you alone are the Holy One,
you alone are the Lord,
you alone are the Most High,
 Jesus Christ,
 with the Holy Spirit,
 in the glory of God the Father.  Amen. 


<Canticle 21>  You are God  =Te Deum laudamus= 

You are God:  we praise you;
You are the Lord; we acclaim you;
You are the eternal Father:
All creation worships you.
To you all angels, all the powers of heaven,
Cherubim and Seraphim, sing in endless praise:
 Holy, holy, holy Lord, God of power and might,
 heaven and earth are full of your glory. 

The glorious company of apostles praise you.
The noble fellowship of prophets praise you.
The white-robed army of martyrs praise you.
Throughout the world the holy Church acclaims you;
 Father, of majesty unbounded,
 your true and only Son, worthy of all worship,
 and the Holy Spirit, advocate and guide. 

<page 96> 

You, Christ, are the king of glory,
the eternal Son of the Father.
When you became man to set us free
you did not shun the Virgin's womb.
You overcame the sting of death
and opened the kingdom of heaven to all believers.
You are seated at God's right hand in glory.
We believe that you will come and be our judge.
 Come then, Lord, and help your people,
 bought with the price of your own blood,
 and bring us with your saints
 to glory everlasting. 

<The Apostles' Creed> 

*Officiant and People together, all standing* 

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
 creator of heaven and earth. 

I believe in Jesus Christ, his only son, our Lord.
 He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit
/and born of the Virgin Mary.
 He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
/was crucified, died, and was buried.
 He descended to the dead.
 On the third day he rose again.
 He ascended into heaven,
/and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
 He will come again to judge the living and the dead. 

I believe in the Holy Spirit,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting.  Amen. 

<page 97> 

<The Prayers> 

*The People stand or kneel* 

*Officiant*  The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 

*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 

<parallel column> 

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be you Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven. 

Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us. 

Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil. 

For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen. 

*Then follows one of these sets of Suffrages* 

<Suffrages A> 

&V.  Show us your mercy, O Lord; 

&R.  And grant us your salvation. 

&V.  Clothe your ministers with righteousness; 

&R.  Let your people sing with joy. 

&V.  Give peace, O Lord, in all the world; 

&R.  For only in you can we live in safety. 

<page 98> 

&V.  Lord, keep this nation under your care; 

&R.  And guide us in the way of justice and truth. 

&V.  Let your way be known upon earth; 

&R.  Your saving health among all nations. 

&V.  Let not the needy, O Lord, be forgotten; 

&R.  Nor the hope of the poor be taken away. 

&V.  Create in us clean hearts, O God; 

&R.  And sustain us by your Holy Spirit. 

<Suffrages B> 

&V.  Save your people, Lord, and bless your inheritance; 

&R.  Govern and uphold them, now and always. 

&V.  Day by day we bless you; 

&R.  We praise your name for ever. 

&V.  Lord, keep us from all sin today; 

&R.  Have mercy on us, Lord, have mercy. 

&V.  Lord, show us your love and mercy; 

&R.  For we put our trust in you. 

&V.  In you, Lord, is our hope; 

&R.  And we shall never hope in vain. 

*The Officiant then says one or more of the following Collects* 

*The Collect of the Day* 

*A Collect for Sundays* 

O God, you make us glad with the weekly remembrance of
the glorious resurrection of you Son our Lord:  Give us this
day such blessing through our worship of you, that the week
to come may be spent in your favor; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 99> 

*A Collect for Fridays* 

Almighty God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he
was crucified:  Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way
of the cross, may find it none other than the way of life and
peace; through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*A Collect for Saturdays* 

Almighty God, who after the creation of the world rested
from all you works and sanctified a day of rest for all your
creatures:  Grant that we, putting away all earthly anxieties,
may be duly prepared for the service of your sanctuary, and
that our rest here upon earth may be a preparation for the
eternal rest promised to your people in heaven; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*A Collect for the Renewal of Life* 

O God, the King eternal, whose light divides the day from the
night and turns the shadow of death into the morning:  Drive
far from us all wrong desires, incline our hearts to keep your
law, and guide our feet into the way of peace; that, having
done your will with cheerfulness during the day, we may,
when night comes, rejoice to give you thanks; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*A Collect for Peace* 

O God, the author of peace and lover of concord, to know
you is eternal life and to serve you is perfect freedom:  Defend
us, your humble servants, in all assaults of our enemies; that
we, surely trusting in your defense, may not fear the power of
any adversaries; through the might of Jesus Christ our Lord,
=Amen.= 

<page 100> 

*A Collect for Grace* 

Lord God, almighty and everlasting Father, you have
brought us in safety to this new day:  Preserve us with your
mighty power, that we may not fall into sin, nor be overcome
by adversity; and in all we do, direct us to the fulfilling of
your purpose; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*A Collect for Guidance* 

Heavenly Father, in you we live and move and have our
being:  We humbly pray you so to guide and govern us by
your Holy Spirit, that in all the cares and occupations of our
life we may not forget you, but may remember that we are
ever walking in your sight; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.= 

*Then, unless the Eucharist or a form of general intercession is to 
follow, one of these prayer for mission is added* 

Almighty and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole
body of your faithful people is governed and sanctified:
Receive our supplications and prayers which we offer before
your for all members of you holy Church, that in their
vocation and ministry they may truly and devoutly serve you;
through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, you have made of one blood all the peoples of the
earth, and sent your blessed Son to preach peace to those
who are far off and to those who are near:  Grant that people
everywhere may seek after you and find you; bring the
nations into your fold; pour out your Spirit upon all flesh,
and hasten the coming of your kingdom; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*or the following* 

<page 101> 

Lord Jesus Christ, you stretched out your arms of love on
the hard wood of the cross that everyone might come within
the reach of your saving embrace:  So clothe us in your Spirit
that we, reaching forth our hands in love, may bring those
who do not know you to the knowledge and love of you; for
the honor of your Name.  =Amen.= 

*Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.* 

*Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.* 

*Before the close of the Office one or both of the following may be 
used* 

*The General Thanksgiving* 

*Officiant and People* 

Almighty God, Father of all mercies,
we your unworthy servants give you humble thanks
for all your goodness and loving-kindness
to us and to all whom you have made.
We bless you for our creation, preservation,
and all the blessings of this life;
but above all for your immeasurable love
in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ;
for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory.
And, we pray, give us such an awareness of your mercies,
that with truly thankful hearts we may show forth your praise,
not only with our lips, but in our lives,
by giving up our selves to your service,
and by walking before you
in holiness and righteousness all our days;
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
to whom, with you and the Holy Spirit,
be honor and glory throughout all ages.  =Amen.= 

<page 102> 

*A Prayer of St. Chrysostom* 

Almighty God, you have given us grace at this time with one
accord to make our common supplication to you; and you
have promised through your well-beloved Son that when two
or three are gathered together in his Name you will be in the 
midst of them:  Fulfill now, O Lord, our desires and petitions
as may be best for us; granting us in this world knowledge of
your truth, and in the age to come life everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*Then may be said* 

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.= 

*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" may
be added to the preceding versicle and response.* 

*The Officiant may then conclude with one of the following* 

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and
the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with us all evermore.
=Amen.=  =2 Corinthians 13:14= 

May the God of hope fill us with all joy and peace in
believing through the power of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=
=Romans 15:13= 

Glory to God whose power, working in us, can do infinitely
more than we can ask or imagine:  Glory to him from
generation to generation in the Church, and in Christ Jesus
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=  =Ephesians 3:20,21= 

<page 103> 



<An Order of Service
for Noonday> 

*Officiant*  O God, make speed to save us. 

*People*  O Lord, make haste to help us. 

*Officiant and People* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*Except in Lent, add*  Alleluia. 

*A suitable hymn may be sung.* 

*One or more of the following Psalms is sung or said.  Other suitable
selections include Psalms 19,67, one or more sections of Psalm 119, or a
selection from Psalms 120 through 133.* 


<Psalm 119> 

105  Your word is a lantern to my feet *
 and a light upon my path. 

106  I have sworn and am determined *
 to keep your righteous judgments. 

<page 104> 

107  I am deeply troubled; *
 preserve my life, O Lord, according to your word. 

108  Accept, O LORD, the willing tribute of my lips, *
 and teach me your judgments. 

109  My life is always in my hand, *
 yet I do not forget your law. 

110  The wicked have set a trap for me, *
 but I have not strayed from your commandments. 

111  Your decrees are my inheritance for ever; *
 truly, they are the joy of my heart. 

112  I have applied my heart to fulfill your statues *
 for ever and to the end. 


<Psalm 121>  =Levavi oculos= 

1  I lift up my eyes to the hills; *
 from where is my help to come? 

2  My help comes from the LORD, *
 the maker of heaven and earth. 

3  He will not let your foot be moved *
 and he who watches over you will not fall asleep. 

4  Behold, he who keeps watch over Israel *
 shall neither slumber nor sleep; 

5  The LORD himself watches over you; *
 the LORD is your shade at your right hand, 

6  So that the sun shall not strike you by day, *
 nor the moon by night. 

7  The LORD shall preserve you from all evil; *
 it is he who shall keep you safe. 

<page 105> 

8  The LORD shall watch over your going out and your coming in, *
 from this time forth for evermore. 


<Psalm 126>  =In convertendo= 

1  When the LORD restored the fortunes of Zion, *
 then were we like those who dream. 

2  Then was our mouth filled with laughter, *
 and our tongue with shouts of joy. 

3  Then they said among the nations, *
 "The LORD has done great things for them." 

4  The LORD has done great things for us, *
 and we are glad indeed. 

5  Restore our fortunes, O LORD, *
 like the watercourses of the Negev. 

6  Those who sowed with tears *
 will reap with songs of joy. 

7  Those who go out weeping, carrying the seed, *
 will come again with joy, shouldering their sheaves. 


*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


*One of the following, or some other suitable passage of Scripture, is 
read* 

The love of God has been poured into our hearts through the
Holy Spirit that has been given to us.  =Romans 5:5= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or the following* 

<page 106> 

If anyone is in Christ he is a new creation; the old has passed
away, behold the new has come.  All this is from God, who
through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry
of reconciliation.  =2 Corinthians 5:17-18= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or this* 

From the rising of the sun to its setting my Name shall be
great among the nations, and in every place incense shall be
offered to my Name, and a pure offering; for my Name shall be
great among the nations, says the Lord of Hosts.  =Malachi 1:11= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*A meditation, silent or spoken, may follow.* 


*The Officiant then begins the Prayers* 

Lord, have mercy. 

=Christ, have mercy.= 

Lord, have mercy. 

*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 

<parallel column> 

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be you Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven. 

Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us. 

Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil. 

For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen. 

<page 107> 


*Officiant*  Lord, hear our prayer; 

*People*  And let our cry come to you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 

*The Officiant then says one of the following Collect.  If desired, the
Collect of the Day may be used.* 

Heavenly Father, send your Holy Spirit into our hearts, to
direct and rule us according to your will, to comfort us in all
our afflictions, to defend us from all error, and to lead us into
all truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

Blessed Savior, at this hour you hung upon the cross,
stretching out your loving arms:  Grant that all the peoples of
the earth may look to you and be saved;  for your tender
mercies' sake.  =Amen.= 

Almighty Savior, who at noonday called your servant Saint
Paul to be an apostle to the Gentiles:  We pray you to illumine
the world with the radiance of your glory, that all nations
may come and worship you; for you live and reign for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

Lord Jesus Christ, you said to your apostles, "Peace I give to
you; my peace I leave with you:" Regard not our sins,
but the faith of your Church, and give to us the peace and
unity of that heavenly city, where with the Father and the
Holy Spirit you live and reign, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Free intercessions may be offered.* 


*The service concludes as follows* 

*Officiant*  Let us bless the Lord. 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

<page 108> 


<Concerning the Service> 

*This Order provides a form of evening service or vespers for use on
suitable occasions in the late afternoon or evening.  It may be used as 
a complete rite in place of Evening Prayer, or as the introduction to
Evening Prayer or some other service, or as the prelude to an evening
meal or other activity.  It is appropriate also for use in private 
houses.*

*Any part or parts of this service may be lead by lay persons.  A priest 
or deacon, when presiding, should read the Prayer for Light, and the
Blessing or Dismissal at the end.  The bishop, when present, should give
the Blessing.* 

*This order is not appropriate for use on Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday
in Holy Week, or on Good Friday.  Easter Eve has its own form for the
Lighting of the Paschal Candle.* 

*For the Short Lesson at the beginning of the service, any one of the
following is also appropriate, especially for the seasons suggested:*

<column 1> 

Isaiah 60:19-20 (Advent)

Luke 12:35-37 (Advent)

John 1:1-5 (Christmas)

Isaiah 60:1-3 (Epiphany)

1 John 1:5-7 (Lent)

John 12:35-36a (Lent) 

<column 2> 

Revelation 21:10,22-24 (Easter)

Psalm 36:5-9 (Ascension)

Joel 2:28-30 (Whitsunday)

Colossians 1:9,11-14 (Saints' Days)

1 Peter 2:9 (Saints' Days)

Revelation 22:1,4-5 (Saints' Days) 

*Any of the prayers in contemporary language may be adapted to
traditional language by changing the pronouns and the corresponding
verbs.*

*Additional Directions are on page 142.*

<page 109> 



<An Order of Worship
for the Evening>

*The church is dark, or partially so, when the service is to begin.* 


*All stand, and the Officiant greets the people with these words.* 

Light and Peace, in Jesus Christ our Lord. 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost* 

*Officiant*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.
*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia. 


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions* 

*Officiant*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins; 

*People*  His mercy endures for ever. 


*One of the following, or some other Short Lesson of Scripture
appropriate to the occasion or to the season, may then be read* 

Jesus said, "You are the light of the world.  A city built on a
hill cannot be hid.  No one lights a lamp to put it under a
bucket, but on a lamp-stand where it gives light for everyone
in the house.  And you, like the lamp, must shed light among
your fellow men, so that they may see the deed you do, and
give glory to your Father in heaven."  =Matthew 5:14-16= 

<page 110> 

It is not ourselves that we proclaim; we proclaim Christ
Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your servants, for Jesus' sake.
For the same God who said, "Out of darkness let light shine,"
has caused his light to shine within us, to give the light of
revelation--the revelation of the glory of God in the face of
Jesus Christ.  =2 Corinthians 4:5-6= 

If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me, and the light
around me turn to night," darkness is not dark to you, O
Lord; the night is as bright as the day; darkness and light to
you are both alike.  =Psalm 139:10-11= 


*The Officiant then says the Prayer for Light, using any one of the
following for some other suitable prayer, first saying* 

Let us pray. 

Almighty God, we give you thanks for surrounding us, as
daylight fades, with the brightness of the vesper light; and we
implore you of your great mercy that, as you enfold us with
the radiance of this light, so you would shine into our hearts
the brightness of your Holy Spirit; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.= 

Grant us, Lord, the lamp of charity which never fails, that it
may burn in us and shed its light on those around us, and
that by its brightness we may have a vision of that holy City,
where dwells the true and never-failing Light, Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.= 

O Lord God Almighty, as you have taught us to call the
evening, the morning, and the noonday one day; and have
made the sun to know its going down:  Dispel the darkness of
our hearts, that by your brightness we may know you to be
the true God and eternal light, living and reigning for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

<page 111> 

Lighten our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy
great mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this
night; for the love of thy only Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ.
=Amen.= 


*Advent* 

*Collect for the First Sunday of Advent* 


*Christmas, Epiphany, and other Feasts of the Incarnation* 

*Collect for the First Sunday after Christmas* 


*Lent and other times of penitence* 

Almighty and most merciful God, kindle within us the fire of
love, that by its cleansing flame we may be purged of all our
sins and made worthy to worship you in spirit and in truth;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*Easter Season* 

Eternal God, who led your ancient people into freedom by a
pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night:  Grant that
we who walk in the light of your presence may rejoice in the
liberty of the children of God; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.= 


*Festivals of Saints* 

Lord Christ, your saints have been the lights of the world
in every generation:  Grant that we who follow in their
footsteps may be made worthy to enter with them into that
heavenly country where you live and reign for ever and ever.
=Amen.= 

<page 112> 


*The candles at the Altar are now lighted, as are other candles and 
lamps as may be convenient.* 

*During the candle-lighting, an appropriate anthem or psalm may be
sung, or silence kept.* 


*The following hymn, or a metrical version of it, or some other hymn, is
then sung* 


<O Gracious Light> =Phos hilaron= 

O gracious light,
pure brightness of the everliving Father in heaven,
O Jesus Christ, holy and blessed! 

Now as we come to the setting of the sun,
and our eyes behold the vesper light,
we sing your praised, O God:  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

You are worthy at all times to be praised by happy voices,
O Son of God, O Giver of Life,
and to be glorified through all the worlds. 


*The service may then continue in any of the following ways:* 

*With Evening Prayer, beginning with the Psalms; or with some other
Office or Devotion;* 

*With the celebration of the Holy Eucharist, beginning with the 
Salutation and Collect of the Day;* 

*Or, it may be followed by a meal or other activity, in which case Phos
hilaron may be followed by the Lord's Prayer and a grace or blessing;* 

*Or, it may continue as a complete evening Office with the following
elements:* 

<Selection from the Psalter.>  *Silence, or a suitable Collect, or both,
may follow the Psalmody.* 

<Bible Reading.>  *A sermon or homily, a passage from Christian 
literature,
or a brief silence, may follow the Reading.* 

<Canticle.>  *The Magnificat or other canticle, or some other hymn of 
praise.* 

<Prayers.>  *A litany, or other suitable devotions, including the Lord's 
Prayer.* 

<Blessing or Dismissal,> *or both.  The Peace may then be exchanged. 


*On feasts or other days of special significance, the Collect of the 
Day, or one proper to the season, may precede the Blessing or Dismissal.  
On other days, either of the following, or one of the Collects from 
Evening Prayer or from Compline, may be so used.* 

Blessed are you, O Lord, the God of our fathers, creator
of the changes of day and night, giving rest to the weary,
renewing the strength of those who are spent, bestowing
upon us occasions of song in the evening.  As you have
protected us in the day that is past, so be with us in the
coming night; keep us from every sin, every evil, and every
fear; for you are our light and salvation, and the strength of
our life.  To you be glory for endless ages.  =Amen.= 

Almighty, everlasting God, let our prayer in your sight be as
incense, the lifting up of our hands as the evening sacrifice.
Give us grace to behold you, present in your Word and
Sacraments, and to recognize you in the lives of those around
us.  Stir up in us the flame of that love which burned in the
heart of your Son as he bore his passion, and let it burn in us
to eternal life and to the ages of ages.  =Amen.= 

<page 114> 


*A bishop or priest may use the following or some other blessing or 
grace* 

The Lord bless you and keep you.  =Amen.= 

The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you.  
=Amen.= 

The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding blessing substitutes "us"
for "you."* 


*A dismissal may be used (adding "Alleluia, alleluia" in Easter Season)* 


*The People respond* 

Thanks be to God. 


*In Easter Season the People respond* 

Thanks be to God.  Alleluia, alleluia. 

<page 115> 



<Daily Evening Prayer:
Rite Two>

*The Officiant begins the service with one or more of the following
sentences of Scripture, or of those on pages 75-78;* 

*or with the Service of Light on pages 109-112, and continuing with the
appointed Psalmody;* 

*or with the versicle "O God, make speed to save us" on page 117* 

Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense, the lifting
up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.  =Psalm 141:2= 

Grace to you and peace from God our Father and from the
Lord Jesus Christ.  =Philippians 1:2= 

Worship the Lord in the beauty of his holiness; let the whole earth
tremble before him.  =Psalm 96:9= 

Yours is the day, O God, yours also the night; you established
the moon and the sun.  You fixed all the boundaries of the
earth; you made both summer and winter.  =Psalm 74:15,16= 

I will bless the Lord who gives me counsel; my heart teaches
me, night after night.  I have set the Lord always before me;
because he is at my right hand, I shall not fall.  =Psalm 16:7,8= 

Seek him who made the Pleiades and Orion, and turns deep
darkness into the morning, and darkens the day into night;
who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon
the surface of the earth:  The Lord is his name.  =Amos 5:8= 

<page 116> 

If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me, and the light
around me turn to night,"  darkness is not dark to you, O
Lord; the night is as bright as the day; darkness and light to
you are both alike.  =Pslam 139:10,11= 

Jesus said, "I am the light of the world; whoever follows me
will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life."
=John 8:12= 

*The following Confession of Sin may then be said; or the Office may
continue at once with "O God make speed to save us."*


<Confession of Sin> 

*The Officiant says to the people* 

Dearly beloved, we have come together in the presence of
Almighty god our heavenly Father, to set forth his praise, to
hear his holy Word, and to ask, for ourselves and on behalf
of others, those things that are necessary for our life and our
salvation.  And so that we may prepare ourselves in heart and
mind to worship him, let us kneel in silence, and with
penitent and obedient hearts confess our sins, that we may
obtain forgiveness by his infinite goodness and mercy. 

*or this* 

Let us confess our sins against God and our neighbor. 

*Silence may be kept.* 

*Officiant and People together, all kneeling* 

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves.
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent.
<page 117>
For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen. 

*The Priest alone stands and says* 

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all
goodness, and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in
eternal life.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form remains kneeling, and
substitutes "us" for "you" and "our" for "your." 


<The Invitatory and Psalter> 

*All stand* 

*Officiant* O God, make speed to save us. 

*People*  O Lord, make haste to help us. 

*Officiant and People* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*Except in Lent, add*  Alleluia. 

*The following, or some other suitable hymn, or an Invitatory Psalm, may
be sung or said.* 


<O Gracious Light>  =Phos hilaron= 

O gracious light,
pure brightness of the everliving Father in heaven,
O Jesus Christ, holy and blessed! 

Now as we come to the setting of the sun,
and our eyes behold the vesper light,
we sing your praised, O God:  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

You are worthy at all times to be praised by happy voices,
O Son of God, O Giver of Life,
and to be glorified through all the worlds. 

*Then follows* 

<The Psalm or Psalms Appointed> 

*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<The Lessons> 

*One or two lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader first saying 

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash.. 

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.* 

<page 119> 

*After each Lesson the Reader may say* 

The Word of the Lord. 

*Answer* Thanks be to God. 

*Or the Reader may say* Here ends the Lesson (Reading). 

*Silence may be kept after each Reading.  One of the following 
Canticles, or one of those on pages 47-52, or 85-95, is sung or said 
after each Reading.  If three lessons are used, the Lesson from the 
Gospel is read after the second Canticle.* 


<The Song of Mary>  =Magnificat= 

=Luke 1:46-55= 

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Savior; *
 for he has looked with favor on his lowly servant. 

From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
 the Almighty has done great things for me,
 and holy is his Name. 

He has mercy on those who fear him *
 in every generation. 

He has shown the strength of his arm, *
 he has scattered the proud in their conceit. 

He has cast down the mighty from their thrones, *
 and has lifted up the lowly. 

He has filled the hungry with good things, *
 and the rich he has sent away empty. 

He has come to the help of his servant Israel, *
 for he has remembered his promise of mercy, 

The promise he made to our fathers, *
 to Abraham and his children for ever. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

<page 120> 


<Song of Simeon>  =Nunc Dimittis= 

=Luke 2:29-32= 

Lord, you now have set your servant free *
 to go in peace as you have promised; 

For these eyes of mine have seen the Savior, *
 whom you have prepared for all the world to see: 

A Light to enlighten the nations, *
 and the glory of your people Israel. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


<The Apostles' Creed> 

*Officiant and People together, all standing* 

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
 creator of heaven and earth. 

I believe in Jesus Christ, his only son, our Lord.
 He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit
/and born of the Virgin Mary.
 He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
/was crucified, died, and was buried.
 He descended to the dead.
 On the third day he rose again.
 He ascended into heaven,
/and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
 He will come again to judge the living and the dead. 

I believe in the Holy Spirit,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting.  Amen. 

<page 121> 


<The Prayers> 

*The People stand or kneel* 

*Officiant*  The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 

*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 

<parallel column> 

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be you Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven. 

Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us. 

Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil. 

For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen. 


*Then follows one of these sets of Suffrages* 

<Suffrages A> 

&V.  Show us your mercy, O Lord; 

&R.  And grant us your salvation. 

&V.  Clothe your ministers with righteousness; 

&R.  Let your people sing with joy. 

&V.  Give peace, O Lord, in all the world; 

&R.  For only in you can we live in safety. 

<page 122> 

&V.  Lord, keep this nation under your care; 

&R.  And guide us in the way of justice and truth. 

&V.  Let your way be known upon earth; 

&R.  Your saving health among all nations. 

&V.  Let not the needy, O Lord, be forgotten; 

&R.  Nor the hope of the poor be taken away. 

&V.  Create in us clean hearts, O God; 

&R.  And sustain us by your Holy Spirit. 


<Suffrages B> 

That this evening may be holy, good, and peaceful,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

That your holy angels may lead us in paths of peace and
goodwill,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

That we may be pardoned and forgiven for our sins
and offenses,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

That there may be peace to your Church and to the whole
world,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

That we may depart this life in your faith and fear,
and not be condemned before the great judgment seat
of Christ,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

That we may be bound together by your Holy Spirit in
the communion of [&3m. and ] all your saints,
entrusting one another and all our life to Christ,
=We entreat you, O Lord.= 

*The Officiant then says one or more of the following Collects* 

*The Collect of the Day* 

<page 123> 


*A Collect for Sundays* 

O God, you make us glad with the weekly remembrance of
the glorious resurrection of you Son our Lord:  Give us this
day such blessing through our worship of you, that the week
to come may be spent in your favor; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Fridays* 

Almighty God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he
was crucified:  Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way
of the cross, may find it none other than the way of life and
peace; through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Saturdays* 

Almighty God, who after the creation of the world rested
from all you works and sanctified a day of rest for all your
creatures:  Grant that we, putting away all earthly anxieties,
may be duly prepared for the service of your sanctuary, and
that our rest here upon earth may be a preparation for the
eternal rest promised to your people in heaven; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A Collect for Peace* 

O God, the author of peace and lover of concord, to know
you is eternal life and to serve you is perfect freedom:  Defend
us, your humble servants, in all assaults of our enemies; that
we, surely trusting in your defense, may not fear the power of
any adversaries; through the might of Jesus Christ our Lord,
=Amen.= 


*A Collect for Aid against Perils* 

Be our light in the darkness, O Lord, and in your great mercy
defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the love
of your only Son, our Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.= 

<page 124> 


*A Collect for Projection* 

O God, the life of all who live, the light of the faithful, the
strength of those who labor, and the repose of the dead:  We
thank you for the blessings of the day that is past, and
humbly ask for your protection through the coming night.
Bring us in safety to the morning hours; through him who
died and rose again for us, your Son our Savior Jesus Christ.
=Amen.= 


*A Collect for the Presence of Christ* 

Lord Jesus, stay with us, for evening is at hand and the day
is past; be our companion in the way, kindle our hearts, and
awaken hope, that we may know you as you are revealed in
Scripture and the breaking of bread.  Grant this for the sake
of your love.  =Amen.= 


*Then, unless the Eucharist or a form of general intercession is to 
follow, one of these prayer for mission is added* 

O God and Father of all, whom the whole heavens adore:
Let the whole earth also worship you, all nations obey you,
all tongues confess and bless you, and mean and women
everywhere love you and serve you in peace; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Keep watch, dear Lord, with those who work, or watch, or
weep this night, and give your angels charge over those who
sleep.  Tend the sick, Lord Christ; give rest to the weary, bless
the dying, soothe the suffering, pity the afflicted, shield the
joyous; and all for your love's sake.  =Amen.= 

*or the following* 

<page 125> 

O God, you manifest in your servants the signs of your
presence:  Send forth upon us the spirit of love, that in
companionship with one another your abounding grace may
increase among us; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.* 

*Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.* 

*Before the close of the Office one or both of the following may be 
used* 


*The General Thanksgiving* 

*Officiant and People* 

Almighty God, Father of all mercies,
we your unworthy servants give you humble thanks
for all your goodness and loving-kindness
to us and to all whom you have made.
We bless you for our creation, preservation,
and all the blessings of this life;
but above all for your immeasurable love
in the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ;
for the means of grace, and for the hope of glory.
And, we pray, give us such an awareness of your mercies,
that with truly thankful hearts we may show forth your praise,
not only with our lips, but in our lives,
by giving up our selves to your service,
and by walking before you
in holiness and righteousness all our days;
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
to whom, with you and the Holy Spirit,
be honor and glory throughout all ages.  =Amen.= 

<page 126> 


*A Prayer of St. Chrysostom* 

Almighty God, you have given us grace at this time with one
accord to make our common supplication to you; and you
have promised through your well-beloved Son that when two
or three are gathered together in his Name you will be in the 
midst of them:  Fulfill now, O Lord, our desires and petitions
as may be best for us; granting us in this world knowledge of
your truth, and in the age to come life everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*Then may be said* 

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.= 

*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" may
be added to the preceding versicle and response.* 


*The Officiant may then conclude with one of the following* 

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and
the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with us all evermore.
=Amen.=  =2 Corinthians 13:14= 

May the God of hope fill us with all joy and peace in
believing through the power of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=
=Romans 15:13= 

Glory to God whose power, working in us, can do infinitely
more than we can ask or imagine:  Glory to him from
generation to generation in the Church, and in Christ Jesus
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=  =Ephesians 3:20,21= 

<page 127> 



<An Order for Compline>

*The Officiant begins* 

The Lord Almighty grant us a peaceful night and a perfect
end.  =Amen.= 

*Officiant*  Our help is in the Name of the Lord; 

*People*  The maker of heaven and earth. 


*The Officiant may then say* 

Let us confess our sins to God. 

*Officiant and People* 

Almighty God, our heavenly Father:
We have sinned against you,
through our own fault,
in thought, and word, and deed,
and in what we have left undone.
For the sake of your Son our Lord Jesus Christ,
forgive us all our offenses;
and grant that we may serve you
in newness of life,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen. 

*Officiant* 

May the Almighty God grant us forgiveness of all our sins,
and the grace and comfort of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.= 


*The Officiant then says* 

O God, make speed to save us. 

*People*  O Lord, make haste to help us. 

*Officiant and People* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:  as
it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*Except in Lent, add*  Alleluia. 

*One or more of the following Psalms are sung or said.  Other suitable
selections may be substituted.* 


<Psalm 4>  =Cum invocarem= 

1  Answer me when I call, O God, defender of my cause; *
 you set me free when I am hard-pressed;
 have mercy on me and hear my prayer. 

2  "You mortals, how long will you dishonor my glory; *
 how long will you worship dumb idols
 and run after false gods?" 

3  Know that the LORD does wonders for the faithful; *
 when I call upon the LORD, he will hear me. 

4  Tremble, then, and do not sin; *
 speak to your heart in silence upon your bead. 

5  Offer the appointed sacrifices *
 and put your trust in the LORD. 

<page 129> 

6  Many are saying,
"Oh, that we might see better times!" *
 Lift up the light of your countenance upon us, O LORD. 

7  You have put gladness in my heart, *
 more than when grain and wine and oil increase. 

8  I lie down in peace; at once I fall asleep; *
 for only you, LORD, make me dwell in safety. 


<Psalm 31>  =In te, Domine, speravi= 

1  In you, O LORD, have I taken refuge;
let me never be put to shame: *
 deliver me in your righteousness. 

2  Incline your ear to me; *
 make haste to deliver me. 

3  Be my strong rock, a castle to keep me safe,
for you are my crag and my stronghold; *
 for the sake of your Name, lead me and guide me. 

4  Take me out of the net that they have secretly set for me, *
 for you are my tower of strength. 

5  Into your hands I commend my spirit, *
 for you have redeemed me,
 O LORD, O God of truth. 


<Psalm 91> =Qui habitat= 

1  He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High *
 abides under the shadow of the Almighty. 

2  He shall say to the LORD,
"You are my refuge and my stronghold, *
 my God in whom I put my trust." 

<page 130> 

3  He shall deliver you from the snare of the hunter *
 and from the deadly pestilence. 

4  he shall cover you with his pinions,
and you shall find refuge under his wings; *
 his faithfulness shall be a shield and buckler. 

5  You shall not be afraid of any terror by night, *
 nor of the arrow that flies by day; 

6  Of the plague that stalks in the darkness, *
 nor of the sickness that lays waste at mid-day. 

7  A thousand shall fall at your side
and ten thousand at your right hand, *
 but it shall not come near you. 

8  Your eyes only have to behold *
 to see the reward of the wicked. 

9  Because you have made the LORD your refuge, *
 and the Most High your habitation, 

10  There shall no evil happen to you, *
 neither shall any plague come near your dwelling. 

11  For he shall give his angels charge over you, *
 to keep you in all your ways. 

12  They shall bear you in their hands, *
 lest you dash your foot against a stone. 

13  You shall tread upon the lion and the adder; *
 you shall trample the young lion and the serpent
/under your feet. 

14  Because he is bound to me in love,
therefore will I deliver him; *
 I will protect him, because he knows my Name. 

<page 131> 

15  He shall call upon me, and I will answer him; *
 I am with him in trouble;
 I will rescue him and bring him to honor. 

16  With long life will I satisfy him, *
 and show him my salvation. 


<Psalm 134>  =Ecce nunc= 

1  Behold now, bless the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, *
 you that stand by night in the house of the LORD. 

2  Lift up your hands in the holy place and bless the LORD; *
 the LORD who made heaven and earth bless you out of Zion. 


*At the end of the Psalms is sung or said* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:  *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


*One of the following, or some other suitable passage of Scripture, is 
read* 

Lord, you are in the midst of us, and we are called by your
Name:  Do not forsake us, O Lord our God.  =Jeremiah 14:9,22= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or this* 

Come to me, all who labor and are heavy-laden, and I will
give you rest.  Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me;
for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for
your souls.  For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.
=Matthew 11:28-30= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or the following* 

<page 132> 

May the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our
Lord Jesus, and great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of
the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you
may do his will, working in you that which is pleasing in his
sight; through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and
ever.  =Hebrews 13:20-21= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or this* 

Be sober, be watchful.  Your adversary the devil prowls
around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.
Resist him, firm in your faith.  =1 Peter 5:8-9a= 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*A hymn suitable for the evening may be sung.* 


*Then follows* 

&V.  Into your hands, O Lord, I commend my spirit; 

&R.  For you have redeemed me, O Lord, O God of truth. 

&V.  Keep us, O Lord, as the apple of your eye; 

&R.  Hide us under the shadow of your wings. 


Lord, have mercy. 

=Christ, have mercy.= 

Lord, have mercy. 


*Officiant and People* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven. 

<page 133> 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 

<parallel column> 

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be you Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven. 

Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us. 

Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil. 

For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen. 


*Officiant*  Lord, hear our prayer; 

*People*  And let our cry come to you. 

*Officiant*  Let us pray. 


*The Officiant then says one of the following Collects* 

Be our light in the darkness, O Lord, and in your great mercy
defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the
love of your only Son, our Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.= 

Be present, O merciful God, and protect us through the hours
of this night, so that we who are wearied by the changes and
chances of this life may rest in your eternal changelessness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

Look down, O Lord, from your heavenly throne, and
illumine this night with your celestial brightness; that by
night as by day your people may glorify your holy Name;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

Visit this place, O Lord, and drive far from it all snare of the
enemy; let your holy angels dwell with us to preserve us in
peace; and let your blessing be upon us always; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 134> 


*A Collect for Saturdays* 

We give thanks, O God, for revealing your Son Jesus
Christ to us by the light of his resurrection:  Grant that as we
sing your glory at the close of this day, our joy may abound
in the morning as we celebrate the Paschal mystery; through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*One of the following prayers may be added* 

Keep watch, dear Lord, with those who work, or watch, or
weep this night, and give your angels charge over those who
sleep.  Tend the sick, Lord Christ; give rest to the weary, bless
the dying, soothe the suffering, pity the afflicted, shield the
joyous; and all for your love's sake.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, your unfailing providence sustains the world we live
in and the life we live:  Watch over those, both night and day,
who work while others sleep, and grant that we may never
forget that our common life depends upon each other's toil;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*Silence may be kept, and free intercessions and thanksgivings may be
offered.* 


*The service concludes with the Song of Simeon with this Antiphon, which
is sung or said by all* 

Guide us waking, O Lord, and guard us sleeping; that awake
we may watch with Christ, and asleep we may rest in peace. 

*In Easter Season, add*  Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia. 

<page 135> 

Lord, you now have set your servant free *
 to go in peace as you have promised; 

For these eyes of mine have seen the Savior, *
 whom you have prepared for all the world to see: 

A Light to enlighten the nations, *
 and the glory of your people Israel. 


Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


Guide us waking, O Lord, and guard us sleeping; that awake
we may watch with Christ, and asleep we may rest in peace. 

*In Easter Season, add*  Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia. 


*Officiant*  Let us bless the Lord. 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*The Officiant concludes* 

The almighty and merciful Lord, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,
bless us and keep us.  =Amen.= 

<page 136> 



<Daily Devotions for
Families and Individuals>

*These devotions follow the basic structure of the Daily Office of the
Church.* 

*When more than one person is present, the Reading and the Collect
should be read by one person, and the other parts said in unison, or in
some other convenient manner.  (For suggestions about reading the
Psalms, see page 582.)* 

*For convenience, appropriate Psalms, Readings, and Collects are
provided in each service.  When desired, however, the Collect of the 
Day, or any of the Collects appointed in the Daily Offices, may be used
instead.* 

*The Psalms and Readings may be replaced by those appointed in* 

*a) the Lectionary for Sundays, Holy Days, the Common of Saints, and
Various Occasions, page 888.* 

*b) the Daily Office Lectionary, page 934* 

*c) some other manual of devotion which provides daily selections for 
the
Church Year.* 


<In the Morning> 

*From Psalm 51* 

Open my lips, O Lord, *
 and my mouth shall proclaim your praise. 

Create in me a clean heart, O God, *
 and renew a right spirit within me. 

Cast me not away from your presence *
 and take not your holy Spirit from me. 

Give me the joy of your saving help again *
 and sustain me with your bountiful Spirit. 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen. 


*A Reading* 

Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ!
By his great mercy we have been born anew to a living hope
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.
=1 Peter 1:3= 

*A period of silence my follow.* 

*A hymn or canticle may be used; the Apostles' Creed may be said.* 

*Prayers may be offered for ourselves and others.* 

*The Lord's Prayer* 

*The Collect* 

Lord God, almighty and everlasting Father, you have brought
us in safety to this new day:  Preserve us with your mighty
power, that we may not fall into sin, nor be overcome by
adversity; and in all we do, direct us to the fulfilling of your
purpose; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 138> 


<At Noon> 

*From Psalm 113* 

Give praise, you servants of the LORD; *
 praise the Name of the LORD. 

Let the Name of the LORD be blessed, *
 from this time forth for evermore. 

From the rising of the sun to its going down *
 let the Name of the LORD be praised. 

The LORD is high above all nations, *
 and his glory above the heavens. 

*A Reading* 

O God, you will keep in perfect peace those whose minds are
fixed on you; for in returning and rest we shall be saved; in
quietness and trust shall be our strength.  =Isaiah 26:3; 30:15= 

*Prayers may be offered for ourselves and others.* 

*The Lord's Prayer* 

*The Collect* 

Blessed Savior, at this hour you hung upon the cross,
stretching out your loving arms:  Grant that all the peoples of
the earth may look to you and be saved; for your mercies'
sake.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Lord Jesus Christ, you said to your apostles, "Peace I give to
you; my own peace I leave with you:"  Regard not our sins,
but the faith of your Church, and give to us the peace and
unity of that heavenly City, where with the Father and the
Holy Spirit you live and reign, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

<page 138> 


<In the Early Evening> 

*This devotion my be used before or after the evening meal.* 

*The Order of Worship for the Evening, page 109, may be used instead.* 

O gracious light,
pure brightness of the everliving Father in heaven,
O Jesus Christ, holy and blessed! 

Now as we come to the setting of the sun,
and our eyes behold the vesper light,
we sing your praised, O God:  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

You are worthy at all times to be praised by happy voices,
O Son of God, O Giver of Life,
and to be glorified through all the worlds. 

*A Reading* 

It is not ourselves that we proclaim; we proclaim Christ
Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your servants, for Jesus' sake.
For the same God who said, "Out of darkness let light
shine," has caused his light to shine within us, to give the
light of revelation--the revelation of the glory of God in the
face of Jesus Christ.  =2 Corinthians 4:5-6= 

*Prayers may be offered for ourselves and others.* 

*The Lord's Prayer* 

*The Collect* 

Lord Jesus, stay with us, for evening is at hand and the day is
past; be our companion in the way, kindle our hearts, and
awaken hope, that we may know you as you are revealed in
Scripture and the breaking of bread.  Grant this for the sake
of your love.  =Amen.= 

<page 140> 


<At the Close of Day> 


<Psalm 134>

Behold now, bless the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, *
 you that stand by night in the house of the LORD. 

Lift up your hands in the holy place and bless the LORD; *
 the LORD who made heaven and earth bless you out of Zion. 

*A Reading* 

Lord, you are in the midst of us and we are called by your
Name:  Do not forsake us, O Lord our God.  =Jeremiah 14:9,22= 

*The following may be said* 

Lord, you now have set your servant free *
 to go in peace as you have promised; 

For these eyes of mine have seen the Savior, *
 whom you have prepared for all the world to see; 

A Light to enlighten the nations, *
 and the glory of your people Israel. 

*Prayers for ourselves and others may follow.  It is appropriate that
prayers of thanksgiving for the blessings of the day, and penitence for 
our
sins, be included.* 

*The Lord's Prayer* 

*The Collect* 

Visit this place, O Lord, and drive far from it all snares of the
enemy; let your holy angles dwell with us to preserve us in
peace; and let your blessing be upon us always; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

The almighty and merciful Lord, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,
bless us and keep us.  =Amen.= 

<page 141> 


<Additional Directions> 


*Morning and Evening Prayer* 

*Any of the opening sentences of Scripture, including those listed for
specific seasons or days, may be used at any time according to the
discretion of the officiant.* 

*The proper antiphons on pages 43-44 and 80-82 may be used as refrains
with either of the invitatory Psalms.* 

*Antiphons drawn from the Psalms themselves, or from the opening
sentences given in the Offices, or from other passages of Scripture may 
be used with the Psalms and biblical Canticles.* 

*Gloria Patri is always sung or said at the conclusion of the entire 
portion of the Psalter; and may be used after the Invitatory Psalm or 
the Canticle "Christ our Passover," after each Psalm, and after each 
section of Psalm 119.* 

*The Gloria printed at the conclusion of certain Canticles may be 
omitted when desired.* 

*The following pointing of the Gloria may be used:* 

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, *
 and to the Holy Spirit: 

As it was in the beginning, is now, *
 and will be for ever.  Amen. 

*In Rite One services of Morning Prayer and Evening Prayer, the 
following form of the Gloria may be used:* 

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, *
 and to the Holy Ghost: 

As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, *
 world without end.  Amen. 

*Metrical versions of the Invitatory Psalms, and of the Canticles after 
the Readings, may be used.* 

<page 142> 

*In special circumstances, in place of a Canticle, a hymn may be sung.* 

*The Apostles' Creed is omitted from the Office when the Eucharist with
its own Creed is to follow.  It may also be omitted at one of the 
Offices on weekdays.* 

*The Lord's Prayer may be omitted from the Office when the Litany or the
Eucharist is to follow immediately.* 

*In the Intercessions and Thanksgivings, opportunity may be given for 
the members of the congregation to express intentions or objects of 
prayer and thanksgiving, either at the bidding, or in the course of the 
prayer; and opportunity may be given for silent prayer.* 

*A sermon may be preached after the Office; or, within the Office, after
the Readings or at the time of the hymn or anthem after the Collects.* 

*On occasion, at the discretion of the Minister, a reading from
non-biblical Christian literature may follow the biblical Readings.* 

*An offering may be received and presented at the Office.* 


*When there is Communion* 

*When Morning or Evening Prayer is used as the Liturgy of the Word at
the Eucharist, the Nicene Creed may take the place of the Apostles'
Creed, and the officiant may pass at once from the salutation "The Lord
be with you," and its response, to the Collect of the Day.  A Lesson 
from the Gospel is always included.* 

*The Intercessions on such occasions are to conform to the directions on
page 383.* 

*The service then continues with the [Peace and] Offeratory.* 


*Order of Worship for the Evening* 

*Before this service, there should be as little artificial light as 
possible in
the church.  A musical prelude or processional is not appropriate.* 

*When the ministers enter, one or two lighted candles may be carried
<page 143>
before them, and used to provide light for reading the opening Short
Lesson and Prayer for Light.  From Easter Day through the Day of
Pentecost, the Paschal Candle, if used, should be burning in its 
customary place before the people assemble; the officiant then goes to a 
place close by it to begin the service by its light.* 

*The Short Lessons may be read from any version of the Scriptures
authorized for public worship in this Church, and should be read without
announcement or conclusion.  When one or more Scripture Lessons are to
be read later in the service, the Short Lesson may be omitted.* 

*For the lighting of the candles at the Altar and elsewhere, in Easter
Season the flame may be taken from the Paschal Candle.  At other times,
the candle or candles carried in at the beginning of the service may be
placed on or near the Altar, and other candles may be lighted from them.
During Advent, the lighting of an Advent Wreath may take place after
the Prayer for Light.  On special occasions, lighted candles may be
distributed to members of the congregation.* 

*When this service is used in private houses, candles may be lighted at 
the dining table, or at some other convenient place.* 

*If incense is to be used, it is appropriate after the candles have been
lighted and while the hymn Phos hilaron is being sung.* 

*When this service continues as a complete Office, Psalms and Lessons
from the Office Lectionary or the Proper of the Day, or ones suitable to
the season or the occasion, may be used.  Psalms generally appropriate 
to the evening include:  8, 23, 27, 36, 84, 93, 113, 114, 117, 121, 134, 
139, 141, 143.  When desired, more than one Lesson may be read, with 
silence or singing between them.* 

*If an additional hymn is desired, it may be sung immediately before the
Blessing or Dismissal.* 

*When a meal is to follow, a blessing over food may serve as the
conclusion of this form of service.* 

<page 144> 


<Suggested Canticles at Morning Prayer> 

: After the Old Testament Reading; After the New Testament Reading 

Sun. : 4. or 16. Benedictus Dominus; 7. or 21. Te Deum laudamus
  Advent : 11. Surge, illuminare; 4. or 16. Benedictus Dominus
  Lent : 14. Kyrie Pantokrator; 4. or 16. Benedictus Dominus
  Easter : 8. Cantemus Domino 

Mon. : 9. Ecce, Deus; 19. Magna et mirabilia 

Tue. : 2. or 13. Benedictus es; 18. Dignus es 

Wed. : 11. Surge, illuminare; 4. or 16. Benedictus Dominus
  Lent : 14. Kyrie Pantokrator;  

Thu. : 8. Cantemus Domino ; 6. or 20. Gloria in excelsis
  Advent and Lent : ; 19. Magna et mirabilia 

Fri. : 10. =Quaerite Dominum=; 18. =Dignus es=
  Lent : 14. Kyrie Pantokrator; 

Sat. : 1. or 12. Benedicite; 19.  Magna et mirabilia 

*On Feasts of our Lord and other Major Feasts* : 
  4. or 16 Benedictus Dominus; 7. or 21. Te Deum laudamus 

<page 145> 


<Suggested Canticles at Evening Prayer> 

: After the Old Testament Reading; After the New Testament Reading 

Sun. : Magnificat; Nunc Dimittis ** 

Mon. : 8. Cantemus Domino; Nunc Dimittis
  Lent: 14. Kyrie Pantokrator; 

Tue. : 10. Quaerite Dominum; Magnificat 

Wed. : 1. or 12. Benedicite; Nunc Dimittis 

Thu. : 11. Surge, illuminare; Magnificat 

Fri. : 2. or 13. Benedictus es; Nunc Dimittis 

Sat. : 9. Ecce, Deus; Magnificat 

*On Feasts of our Lord and other Major Feasts* :
  Magnificat; Nunc Dimittis** 

** *If only one Reading is used, the suggested Canticle is the 
Magnificat.* 

<page 146> 


<Psalm 95:  Traditional> =Venite, exultemus= 

O come, let us sing unto the Lord; *
 let us heartily rejoice in the strength of our salvation. 

Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, *
 and show ourselves glad in him with psalms. 


For the Lord is a great God, *
 and a great King above all gods. 

In his hand are all the corners of the earth, *
 and the strength of the hills are his also. 

The sea is his and he made it, *
 and his hands prepared the dry land. 


O come, let us worship and fall down *
 and kneel before the Lord our Maker. 

For he is the lord our God, *
 and we are the people of his pasture
 and the sheep of his hand. 


Today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts *
 as in the provocation,
 and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness; 

When your fathers tempted me, *
 proved me, and saw my works. 


Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, *
 It is a people that do err in their hearts,
 for they have not known my ways. 

Unto whom I sware in my wrath, *
 that they should not enter into my rest. 

<page 147> 

The Great Litany 

<page 148> 



<The Great Litany> 

*To be said or sung, kneeling, standing, or in procession; before the 
Eucharist or after the Collects of Morning or Evening Prayer; or 
separately; especially in Lent and on Rogation days.* 

O God the Father, Creator of heaven and earth,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

O God the Son, Redeemer of the world,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

O God the Holy Spirit, Sanctifier of the faithful,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

O holy, blessed, and glorious Trinity, one God,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

Remember not, Lord Christ, our offenses, nor the offenses
of our forefathers; neither reward us according to our sins.
Spare us, good Lord, spare thy people, whom thou hast
redeemed with thy most precious blood, and by thy mercy
preserve us, for ever.
=Spare us, good Lord.= 

From all evil and wickedness; from sin; from the crafts
and assaults of the devil; and from everlasting damnation,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

<page 149> 

From all blindness of heart; from pride, vainglory,
and hypocrisy; from envy, hatred, and malice; and from all want
of charity,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

From all inordinate and sinful affections; and from all the
deceits of the world, the flesh, and the devil,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

From all false doctrine, heresy, and schism; from hardness
of heart, and contempt of thy Word and commandment,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

From lightening and tempest; from earthquake, fire, and
flood; from plague, pestilence, and famine,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

From all oppression, conspiracy, and rebellion; from
violence, battle, and murder; and from dying suddenly
and unprepared,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

By the mystery of thy holy Incarnation; by thy holy Nativity
and submission to the Law; by thy Baptism, Fasting, and
Temptation,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

By thine Agony and Bloody Sweat; by thy Cross and Passion;
by thy precious Death and Burial; by thy glorious Resurrection
and Ascension; and by the Coming of thy Holy Ghost,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

In all time of our tribulation; in all time of our prosperity; in
the hour of death, and in the day of judgment,
=Good Lord, deliver us.= 

<page 150> 

We sinners do beseech the to hear us, O Lord God; and that
it may please thee to rule and govern thy holy Church
Universal in the right way,
=We beesech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to illumine all bishops, priests, and
deacons, with true knowledge and understanding of thy
Word; and that both by their preaching and living, they may
set it forth, and show it accordingly,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to bless and keep all thy people,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to send forth laborers into thy
harvest, and to draw all mankind into thy kingdom,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to give to all people increase of grace
to hear and receive thy Word, and to bring forth the fruits of
the Spirit,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to bring into the way of truth all such
as have erred, and are deceived,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to give us a heart to love and fear
thee, and diligently to live after thy commandments,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee so to rule the hearts of thy servants,
the President of the United States (=or= of this nation), and all
others in authority, that they may do justice, and love mercy,
and walk in the ways of truth,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

<page 151> 

That it may please thee to make wars to cease in all the world;
to give to all nations unity, peace, and concord; and to
bestow freedom upon all peoples,  
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to show thy pity upon all prisoners
and captives, the homeless and the hungry, and all who are
desolate and oppressed,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to give and preserve to our use the
bountiful fruits of the earth, so that in due time all may enjoy
them,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to inspire us, in our several callings,
to do the work which thou givest us to do with singleness of
heart as thy servants, and for the common good,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to preserve all who are in danger by
reason of their labor or their travel,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to preserve, and provide for, all
women in childbirth, young children and orphans, the
widowed, and all whose homes are broken or torn by strife,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to visit the lonely; to strengthen all
who suffer in mind, body, and spirit; and to comfort with thy
presence those who are failing and infirm,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to support, help, and comfort all who
are in danger, necessity, and tribulation,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

<page 152> 

That it may please thee to have mercy upon all mankind,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to give us true repentance; to forgive
us all our sins, negligences, and ignorances; and to endue
us with the grace of thy Holy Spirit to amend our lives
according to thy holy Word,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to forgive our enemies, persecutors,
and slanderers, and to turn their hearts,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to strengthen such as do stand; to
comfort and help the weak-hearted; to raise up those who
fall; and finally to beat down Satan under our feet,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to grant to all the faithful departed
eternal life and peace,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

That it may please thee to grant that, in the fellowship of
[&mdash. and] all the saints, we may attain to thy
heavenly kingdom,
=We beseech thee to hear us, good Lord.= 

Son of God, we beseech thee to hear us.
=Son of God, we beseech thee to hear us.= 

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
=Have mercy upon us.= 

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
=Grant us thy peace.= 

<page 153> 

O Christ, hear us.
=O Christ, hear us.= 

Lord, have mercy upon us.
=Christ have mercy upon us.
Lord, have mercy upon us. 

*or* 

Kyrie Eleison.
=Christe Eleison.=
Kyrie Eleison. 

*When the Litany is sung or said immediately before the Eucharist, the 
Litany concludes here, and the Eucharist begins with the Salutation and 
the Collect of the Day.* 

*On all other occasions, the Officiant and People say together* 

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be they Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven. 

Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us. 

And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil. 

For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen. 

&V.  O Lord, let thy mercy be showed upon us; 

&R.  As we do put our trust in thee. 

*The Officiant concludes with the following or some other Collect* 

Let us pray. 

Almighty God, who hast promised to hear the petitions of
those who ask in thy Son's Name: We beseech thee mercifully
to incline thine ear to us who have now made our prayers
and supplications unto thee; and grant that those things
which we have asked faithfully according to thy will, may be
obtained effectually, to the relief of our necessity, and to the
setting forth of thy glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.= 

<page 154> 

*The Officiant may add other Prayers, and end the Litany, saying* 

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the 
fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore.
=Amen.= 


<The Supplication> 

*For use in the Litany in place of the Versicle and Collect which 
follows the Lord's Prayer; or at the end or Morning or Evening Prayer; 
or as a separate devotion; especially in times of war, or of national 
anxiety, or of disaster.* 

O Lord, arise, help us;
=And deliver us for thy Name's sake.= 

O God, we have heard with our ears, and our fathers have
declared unto us, the noble works that thou didst in their
days, and in the old time before them. 

=O Lord, arise, help us;
and deliver us for thy Name's sake.= 

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy
Ghost; as it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
world without end. Amen. 

=O Lord, arise, help us;
and deliver us for thy Name's sake.= 

&V.  From our enemies defend us, O Christ; 

&R.  Graciously behold our afflictions. 

&V.  With pity behold the sorrows of our hearts; 

&R.  Mercifully forgive the sins of thy people. 

<page 155> 

&V.  Favorably with mercy hear our prayers; 

&R.  O Son of David, have mercy upon us. 

&V.  Both now and ever vouchsafe to hear us, O Christ; 

&R.  Graciously hear us, O Christ; graciously hear us, O Lord Christ. 

*The Officiant concludes* 

Let us pray. 

We humbly beseech thee, O Father, mercifully to look upon
our infirmities; and, for the glory of your Name, turn from us
all those evils that we most justly have deserved; and grant
that in all our troubles we may put our whole trust and
confidence in thy mercy, and evermore serve thee in holiness
and pureness of living, to thy honor and glory; through our
only Mediator and Advocate, Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 156> 

<page 157> 



<The Collects
for the
Church Year> 



<Collects:  Traditional> 


<First Sunday of Advent>

Almighty God, give us grace that we may cast away the 
works of darkness, and put upon us the armor of light, now 
in the time of this mortal life in which thy Son Jesus Christ 
came to visit us in great humility; that in the last day, when 
he shall come again in his glorious majesty to judge both the 
quick and the dead, we may rise to the life immortal; through 
him who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 


<Second Sunday of Advent>

Merciful God, who sent thy messengers the prophets to 
preach repentance and prepare the way for our salvation: 
Give us grace to heed their warnings and forsake our sins, 
that we may greet with joy the coming of Jesus Christ our 
Redeemer; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 

<page 160> 


<Third Sunday of Advent>

Stir up thy power, O Lord, and with great might come 
among us; and, because we are sorely hindered by our sins, 
let thy bountiful grace and mercy speedily help and deliver 
us; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee and 
the Holy Ghost, be honor and glory, world without end.  
=Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional winter 
Ember Days.* 


<Fourth Sunday of Advent>

We beseech thee, Almighty God, to purify our consciences by 
thy daily visitation, that when thy Son Jesus Christ cometh he
may find in us a mansion prepared for himself; through the
same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, now and for ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 


<The Nativity of Our Lord:  Christmas Day>  =December 25= 

O God, who makest us glad by the yearly remembrance of 
the birth of thy only Son Jesus Christ:  Grant that as we joyfully 
receive him for our Redeemer, so we may with sure 
confidence behold him when he shall come to be our Judge; 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost, one 
God, world without end.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 


<page 161>

O God, who hast caused this holy night to shine with the 
illumination of the true Light:  Grant us, we beseech thee,
that as we have known the mystery of that Light upon earth, 
so may we also perfectly enjoy him in heaven; where with 
thee and the Holy Spirit he liveth and reigneth, one God, in 
glory everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Almighty God, who hast given us thy only-begotten Son to
take our nature upon him, and as at this time to be born of a 
pure virgin:  Grant that we, being regenerate and made thy 
children by adoption and grace, may daily be renewed by thy 
Holy Spirit; through the same our Lord Jesus Christ, who
liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Spirit ever, one
God, world without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 

*The Collect immediately preceding and any of the sets of Proper Lessons 
for Christmas Day serve for any weekdays between Holy Innocents' Day and 
the First Sunday after Christmas Day.* 


<First Sunday after Christmas Day>

*This Sunday takes precedence over the three Holy Days which follow 
Christmas Day.  As necessary, the observance of one, two, or all three 
of them, is postponed one day.* 

Almighty God, who hast poured upon us the new light of
thine incarnate Word:  Grant that the same light, enkindled in 
our hearts, may shine forth in our lives; through the same
Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in 
the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 

<page 162>

<The Holy Name>  =January 1= 

Eternal Father, who didst give to thine incarnate Son the holy 
name of Jesus to be the sign of our salvation:  Plant in every 
heart, we beseech thee, the love of him who is the Savior of 
the world, even our Lord Jesus Christ; who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, in glory 
everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<Second Sunday after Christmas Day>

O God, who didst wonderfully creat, and yet more 
wonderfully restore, the dignity of human nature:  Grant 
that we may share the divine life of him who humbled 
himself to share our humanity, thy Son Jesus Christ; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 


<The Epiphany>  =January 6= 

O God, who by the leading of a star didst manifest thy only-
begotten Son to the peoples of the earth:  Lead us, who know 
thee now by faith, to thy presence, where we may behold thy 
glory face to face; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 


*The preceding Collect, with the Psalm and Lessons for the Epiphany, or 
those for the Second Sunday after Christmas, serves for weekdays between 
the Epiphany and the following Sunday.  The Preface of the Epiphany is 
used.* 

<page 163>


<First Sunday after the Epiphany:  The Baptism of our Lord>

Father in heaven, who at the baptism of Jesus in the River
Jordan didst proclaim him thy beloved Son and anoint him
with the Holy Spirit:  Grant that all who are baptized into his 
Name may keep the covenant they have made, and boldly
confess him as Lord and Savior; who with thee and the same
Holy Spirit liveth and reigneth, one God, in glory everlasting. 
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 


<Second Sunday after the Epiphany>

Almighty God, whose Son our Savior Jesus Christ is the light 
of the world:  Grant that thy people, illumined by thy Word 
and Sacraments, may shine with the radiance of Christ's
glory, that he may be known, worshiped, and obeyed to the ends of the 
earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with thee and the Holy Spirit 
liveth and reigneth, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Third Sunday after the Epiphany>

Give us grace, O Lord, to answer readily the call of our 
Savior Jesus Christ and proclaim to all people the Good 
News of his salvation, that we and the whole world may 
perceive the glory of his marvelous works; who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day*

<page 164>


<Fourth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Almighty and everlasting God, who dost govern all things in 
heaven and earth:  Mercifully hear the supplications of thy 
people, and in our time grant us thy peace; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Fifth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Set us free, O God, from the bondage of our sins, and give us,
we beseech thee, the liberty of that abundant life which thou
hast manifested to us in thy Son our Savior Jesus Christ; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Sixth Sunday after the Epiphany>

O God, the strength of all who put their trust in thee: 
Mercifully accept our prayers; and because through the 
weakness of our mortal nature, we can do no good thing
without thee, give us the help of thy grace, that in keeping 
thy commandments we may please thee both in will and deed; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Seventh Sunday after the Epiphany>

O Lord, who hast taught us that all our doings without
charity are nothing worth; Send thy Holy Ghost and pour 
<page 165>
into our hearts that most excellent gift of charity, the very
bond of peace and of all virtue, without which whosoever 
liveth is counted dead before thee.  Grant this for thine only 
Son Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Eighth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Most loving Father, who willest us to give thanks for all 
things, to dread nothing but the loss of thee, and to cast all 
our care on thee who carest for us:  Preserve us from faithless 
fears and worldly anxieties, ang grant that no clouds of this 
mortal life may hide from us the light of that love which is 
immortal, and which thou hast manifested to us in thy Son 
Jesus Christ our Lord; who liveth and reigneth with thee, in 
the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Last Sunday after the Epiphany>

*This Proper is always used on the Sunday before Ash Wednesday* 

O God, who before the passion of thy only-begotten Son 
didst reveal his glory upon the holy mount:  Grant unto us 
that we, beholding by faith the light of his countenance, may 
be strengthened to bear our cross, and be changed into his 
likeness from glory to glory; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 

<page 166>


<Ash Wednesday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 264.* 

Almighty and everlasting God, who hatest nothing that thou
hast made and dost forgive the sins of all those who are 
penitent:  Create and make in us new and contrite hearts, that 
we, worthily lamenting our sins and acknowledging our 
wretchedness, may obtain of thee, the God of all mercy, 
perfect remission and forgiveness; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=
 
*Preface of Lent* 

*This Collect, with the corresponding Psalm and Lessons, also serves for 
the weekdays which follow, except as otherwise appointed.*


<First Sunday in Lent>

Almighty God, whose blessed Son was led by the Spirit to be
tempted by Satan; Come quickly to help us who are assaulted by many 
temptations; and, as you know the weaknesses of each of us, let each one 
find you mighty to save; through Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with 
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional spring 
Ember Days.* 


<Second Sunday in Lent>

O God, whose glory it is always to have mercy:  Be gracious
to all who have gone astry from thy ways, and bring them
again with penitent hearts and steadfast faith to embrace and 
hold fast the unchangeable truth of thy Word, Jesus Christ 
<page 167>
thy Son; who with thee and the Holy Spirit liveth and 
reigneth, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Third Sunday in Lent>

Almighty God, who seest that we have no power of ourselves
to help ourselves:  Keep us both outwardly in our bodies and 
inwardly in our souls, that we may be defended from all 
adversities which may happen to the body, and from all evil 
thoughts which may assault and hurt the soul; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 


<Fourth Sunday in Lent>

Gracious Father, whose blessed Son Jesus Christ came down 
from heaven to be the true bread which giveth life to the 
world:  Evermore give us this bread, that he may live in us, 
and we in him; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 


<Fifth Sunday in Lent>

O Almighty God, who alone canst order the unruly wills and 
affections of sinful men:  Grant unto thy people that they may
love the thing which thou commandest, and desire that 
which thou dost promise; that so, among the sundry and 
manifold changes of the world, our hearts may surely there 
be fixed where true joys are to be found; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 

<page 168>


<Sunday of the Passion:  Palm Sunday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 270.* 

Almighty and everliving God, who, of thy tender love 
towards mankind, hast sent thy Son our Savior Jesus Christ 
to take upon him our flesh, and to suffer death upon the 
cross, that all mankind should follow the example of his 
great humility:  Mercifully grant that we may both follow the
example of his patience, and also be make partakers of his
resurrection; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 


<Monday in Holy Week>

Almighty God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he 
was crucified:  Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way 
of the cross, may find it none other that the way of life and 
peace; through Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Tuesday in Holy Week>

O God, by the passion of thy blessed Son didst make an 
instrument of shameful death to be unto us the means of life: 
Grant us so to glory in the cross of Christ, that we may gladly 
suffer shame and loss for the sake of thy Son our Savior Jesus 
Christ; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 

<page 169>


<Wednesday in Holy Week>

O Lord God, whose blessed Son our Savior gave his back to
the smiters and hid not his face from shame:  Give us grace 
to take joyfully the sufferings of the present time, in full
assurance of the glory that shall be revealed; through the same
Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Maundy Thursday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 274.* 

Almighty Father, whose dear Son, on the night before he suffered, 
instituted the Sacrament of his Body and Blood: Mercifully grant that we 
may receive it thankfully in remembrance of Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
in these holy mysteries gives us a pledge of eternal life; and who now 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 


<Good Friday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 276.* 

Almighty God, we beseech thee graciously to behold this thy 
family, for whom our Lord Jesus Christ was contented to be 
betrayed, and given into the hands of sinners, and to suffer 
death upon the cross; who now liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

<page 170>


<Holy Saturday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 283.*

O God, Creator of heaven and earth:  Grant that, as the
crucified body of thy dear Son was laid in the tomb and
rested on this holy Sabbath, so we may await with him the
coming of the third day, and rise with him to newness of life;
who now liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<Easter Day>

*The Liturgy of the Easter Vigil is on page 285.* 

O God, who for our redemption didst give thine 
only-begotten Son to the death of the cross, and by his 
glorious resurrection hast delivered us from the power of 
our enemy:  Grant us so to die daily to sin, that we may 
evermore live with him in the joy of his resurrection; through 
Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  
=Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, who didst make this most holy night to shine with 
the glory of the Lord's resurrection:  Stir up in thy Church 
that Spirit of adoption which is given to us in Baptism, that 
we, being renewed both in body and mind, may worship thee 
in sincerity and truth; through the same Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Almighty God, who through thine only-begotten Son Jesus 
Christ overcame death and opened unto us the gate of 
everlasting life:  Grant that we, who celebrate with joy the 
<page 171>
day of the Lord's resurrection, may be raised from the death 
of sin by thy life-giving Spirit; through the same Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Monday in Easter Week>

Grant, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that we who celebrate 
with reverence the Paschal feast may be found worthy to 
attain to everlasting joys; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Tuesday in Easter Week>

O God, who by the glorious resurrection of thy Son Jesus 
Christ destroyed death and brought life and immortality to 
light:  Grant that we, who have been raised with him, may 
abide in his presence and rejoice in the hope of eternal glory; 
through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee 
and the  Holy Spirit, be dominion and praise for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Wednesday in Easter Week>

O God, whose blessed Son did manifest himself to his disciples 
in the breaking of bread:  Open, we pray thee, the eyes of our 
faith, that we may behold him in all his redeeming work; 
through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth
and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 

<page 172>


<Thursday in Easter Week>

Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery 
hast established the new covenant of reconciliation:  Grant 
that all who have been reborn into the fellowship of Christ's 
Body may show forth in their lives what they profess by their 
faith; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Friday in Easter Week>

Almighty Father, who hast given thy only Son to die for our 
sins and to rise again for our justification:  Give us so to put 
away the leaven of malice and wickedness, that we may always
serve thee in pureness of living and truth; through the same
Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Saturday in Easter Week>

We thank thee, heavenly Father, for that thous hast delivered 
us from the dominion of sin and death and hast brought us 
into the kingdom of thy Son; and we pray that, as by his 
death he hath recalled us to life, so by his love he may raise us 
to joys eternal; who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the 
unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Second Sunday of Easter>

Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery 
hast established the new covenant of reconciliation:  Grant 
that all who have been reborn into the fellowship of Christ's 
<page 173>
Body may show forth in their lives what they profess by their 
faith; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Third Sunday of Easter>

O God, whose blessed Son did manifest himself to his disciples 
in the breaking of bread:  Open, we pray thee, the eyes of our 
faith, that we may behold him in all his redeeming work; 
through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth
and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Fourth Sunday of Easter>

O God, whose Son Jesus is the good shepherd of thy people; 
Grant that when we hear his voice we may know him who
calls us each by name, and follow where he doth lead; 
who, with thee and the Holy Spirit, liveth and reigneth, one 
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Fifth Sunday of Easter>

Almighty god, whom truly to know is everlasting life:  
Grant us so perfectly to know thy Son Jesus Christ to be the 
way, the truth, and the life, that we may steadfastly follow 
his steps in the way that leads to eternal life; through the
same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 

<page 174>


<Sixth Sunday of Easter>

O God, who hast prepared for those who love thee such 
good things as pass man's understanding:  Pour into our 
hearts such love towards thee, that we, loving thee in all 
things and above all things, may obtain thy promises, which 
exceed all that we can desire; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 

*Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week are the traditional 
Rogation Days.* 


<Ascension Day>

Almighty God, whose blessed Son our Savior Jesus Christ 
ascended far above all heavens that he might fill all things: 
Mercifully give us faith to perceive that, according to his 
promise, he abides with his Church on earth, even to the 
end of the ages; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, in 
glory everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Grant, we beseech thee, Almighty God, that as we do
believe thy only-begotten Son our Lord Jesus Christ to have 
ascended into heaven, so we may also in heart and mind 
thither ascend, and with him continually dwell; who liveth 
and reigneth with  you and the Holy Spirit, one God, world
without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Ascension* 

*Either of the preceding Collects, with the proper Psalm and Lessons for 
Ascension Day, serves for the following weekdays, except as otherwise 
appointed.* 

<page 175>


<Seventh Sunday of Easter:  The Sunday after Ascension Day>

O God, the King of glory, you have exalted thine only Son
Jesus Christ with great triumph to thy kingdom in heaven: 
We beseech thee, leave us not comfortless, but send us 
thine Holy Ghost to comfort us, and exalt us to the same
place where our Savior Christ is gone before; who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the same Holy Ghost, one God, 
world without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Ascension* 


<The Day of Pentecost:  Whitsunday>

*When a Vigil of Pentecost is observed, it begins with the Service of  
Light, page 109 (substituting, if desired, the Gloria in Excelsis for 
the Phos hilaron), and continues with the Salutation and Collect of the 
Day.  Three or more of the appointed Lessons are read before the Gospel, 
each followed by a Psalm, Canticle, or hymn.  Holy Baptism or 
Confirmation (beginning with the Presentation of the Candidates), or the 
Renewal of Baptismal Vows, page 292, follows the Sermon.* 

Almighty God, who on this day didst open the way of eternal 
life to every race and nation by the promised gift of thy Holy 
Spirit:  Shed abroad this gift throughout the world by the 
preaching of the Gospel, that it may reach to the ends of the 
earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, who on this day didst teach the hearts of thy faithful 
people by sending to them the light of thy Holy Spirit: Grant 
us by the same Spirit to have a right judgment in all things, and 
evermore to rejoice in his holy comfort; through the merits of
Christ Jesus our Savior, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in 
the unity of the same Spirit, one God, world without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Pentecost* 

<page 176>

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds 
most closely to the date of Pentecost in that year is used.  See page 
158.* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional summer 
Ember Days.* 


<First Sunday after Pentecost:  Trinity Sunday>

Almighty and everlasting God, who hast given unto us
thy servants grace, by the confession of a true faith, to
acknowledge the glory of the eternal Trinity, and in the power 
of thy Divine Majesty to worship the Unity:  We beseech thee
that thou wouldst keep us steadfast in this faith and worship, 
and bring us at last to see thee in thy one and eternal glory, 
O Father; who with the Son and the Holy Spirit livest and 
reignest, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Trinity Sunday* 

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds 
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday in that year is used.* 


<The Season after Pentecost> 

*Directions for the use of the Propers which follow are on page 158.* 

<Proper 1>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Remember, O Lord, what thou hast wrought in us and not
what we deserve; and, as thou hast called us to thy service, 
make us worthy of our calling; through Jesus Christ our 
<page 177>
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*No Proper Preface is used.* 


<Proper 2>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 18=

Almighty and merciful God, of thy bountiful goodness 
keep us, we beseech thee, from all things that may hurt us, 
that we, being ready both in body and soul, may with free 
hearts accomplish those things which belong to thy purpose; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*No Proper Preface is used.* 


<Proper 3>  =The Sunday closest to May 25=

Grant, O Lord, we beseech thee, that the course of this world 
may be peaceably governed by thy providence; and that thy 
Church may joyfully serve thee in confidence and serenity; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 4>  =The Sunday closest to June 1=

O God, whose never-failing providence ordereth all things 
both in heaven and earth:  We humbly beseech thee to put 
away from us all hurtful things, and give us those things 
which are profitable for us; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, for ever and ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 178>


<Proper 5>  =The Sunday closest to June 8=

O God, from whom all good doth come:  Grant that by thy 
inspiration we may think those things that are right, and by 
thy merciful guiding may perform the same; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 6>  =The Sunday closest to June 15=

Keep, O Lord, we beseech thee, thy household the Church in 
thy steadfast faith and love, that through thy grace we 
may proclaim thy truth with boldness, and minister thy 
justice with compassion; for the sake of our Savior Jesus 
Christ, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 7>  =The Sunday closest to June 22=

O Lord, we beseech thee, make us have a perpetual fear
and love of thy holy Name, for thou never failest to help and 
govern those whom thou hast set upon the sure foundation 
of thy loving-kindness; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 8>  =The Sunday closest to June 29=

O Almighty God, who hast built thy Church upon the
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself 
being the chief cornerstone:  Grant us so to be joined together 
in unity of spirit by their doctrine, that we may be made an
<page 179>
holy temple acceptable unto thee; through the same Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface to the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 9>  =The Sunday closest to July 6=

O God, who hast taught us to keep all thy commandments
by loving thee and our neighbor:  Grant us the grace of thy 
Holy Spirit, that we may be devoted to thee with our whole
heart, and united to one another with pure affection; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 10>  =The Sunday closest to July 13=

O Lord, we beseech thee mercifully to receive the prayers of 
thy people who call upon thee, and grant that they may both
perceive and know what things they ought to do, and also 
may have grace and power faithfully to fulfill the same; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 11>  =The Sunday closest to July 20=

Almighty God, the fountain of all wisdom, who knowest our 
necessities before we ask and our ignorance in asking:  Have 
compassion, we beseech thee, upon our infirmities, and those
things which for our unworthiness we dare not, and for our 
blindness we cannot ask, mercifully give us for the worthiness 
of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 180>


<Proper 12>  =The Sunday closest to July 27=

O God, the protector of all that trust in thee, without whom 
nothing is strong, nothing is holy:  Increase and multiply 
upon us thy mercy; that, thou being our ruler and guide, we 
may so pass through things temporal, that we finally lose not 
the things eternal; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface to the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 13>  =The Sunday closest to August 3=

O Lord, we beseech thee, let thy continual pity cleanse and 
defend thy Church; and, because it cannot continue in safety 
without thy succor, preserve it evermore by thy help and
goodness; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.= 


<Proper 14>  =The Sunday closest to August 10=

Grant to us, Lord, we beseech thee, the spirit to think and do 
always such things as are right, that we, who cannot exist 
without thee, may by thee be enabled to live according to thy 
will; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 15>  =The Sunday closest to August 17=

Almighty God, who hast given thy only Son to be unto us 
both a sacrifice for sin and also an example of godly life:  
Give us grace that we may always most thankfully receive
that his inestimable benefit, and also daily endeavor
<page 181>
ourselves to follow the blessed steps of his most holy life; 
through the same Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 16>  =The Sunday closest to August 24=

Grant, we beseech thee, merciful God, that thy Church, 
being gathered together in unity by thy Holy Spirit, may 
manifest thy power among all peoples, to the glory of thy 
Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirt, one God, world
without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 17>  =The Sunday closest to August 31=

Lord of all power and might, who art the author and giver of 
all good things:  Graft in our hearts the love of thy Name; 
increase in us true religion; nourish us with all goodness; 
and bring forth in us the fruit of good works; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 18>  =The Sunday closest to September 7=

Grant us, O Lord, we pray thee, to trust in you with all our 
heart; for, as thou dost alway resist the proud who 
confide in their own strength, so thou dost not forsake those 
who make their boast of thy mercy; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 182>


<Proper 19>  =The Sunday closest to September 14=

O God, forasmuch as without you we are not able to please 
thee, mercifully grant that thy Holy Spirit may in all things 
direct and rule our hearts; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the same Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

*The Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday after September 14 are the 
traditional autumnal Ember Days.* 


<Proper 20>  =The Sunday closest to September 21=

Grant us, O Lord, not to mind earthly things, but to love 
things heavenly; and even now, while we are placed among 
things that are passing away, to cleave to those that shall 
abide; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 21>  =The Sunday closest to September 28=

O God, who declarest thy almighty power chiefly in showing
mercy and pity:  Mercifully grant unto us such a measure of 
thy grace, that we, running to obtain thy promises, may be
made partakers of thy heavenly treasure; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 22>  =The Sunday closest to October 5=

Almighty and everlasting God, who art always more ready to 
hear than we to pray, and to give more than either 
desire or deserve:  Pour upon us the abundance of 
<page 183>
thy mercy, forgiving us those things whereof our conscience 
is afraid, and giving us those good things which we are not 
worthy to ask, but through the merits and mediation of Jesus 
Christ thy Son our Lord; who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 23>  =The Sunday closest to October 12=

Lord, we pray thee that thy grace may always precede and
follow us, and make us continually to be given to all good 
works; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and 
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 24>  =The Sunday closest to October 19=

Almighty and everlasting God, who in Christ hast revealed 
thy glory among the nations:  Preserve the works of thy 
mercy, that thy Church throughout the world may persevere 
with steadfast faith in the confession of thy Name; through 
the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 25>  =The Sunday closest to October 26=

Almighty and everlasting God, give unto us the increase of
faith, hope, and charity; and, that we may obtain that which
thou dost promise, make us to love that which thou dost
command; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 184>


<Proper 26>  =The Sunday closest to November 2=

Almighty and merciful God, of whose only thy gift it cometh that 
thy faithful people do unto thee true and laudable service:  
Grant, we beseech thee, that we may run without stumbling 
to obtain thy heavenly promises; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 27>  =The Sunday closest to November 9=

O God, whose blessed Son was manifested that he might 
destroy the works of the devil and make us children of 
God and heirs of eternal life:  Grant us, we beseech thee, that, 
having this hope, we may purify ourselves even as he is pure; 
that, when he shall appear again with power and great glory, 
we may be made like unto him in his eternal and glorious 
kingdom; where with thee, O Father, and thee, O Holy Ghost,
he liveth and reigneth ever, one God, world without end.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 28>  =The Sunday closest to November 16=

Blessed Lord, who hast caused all holy Scriptures to be 
written for our learning:  Grant that we may in such wise
hear them, read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest them, that,
by patience and comfort of thy holy Word, we may embrace 
and ever hold fast the blessed hope of everlasting life, which 
thou hast given us in our Savior Jesus Christ; who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 185>


<Proper 29>  =The Sunday closest to November 23=

Almighty and everlasting God, whose will it is to restore all 
things in thy well-beloved Son, the King of kings and Lord of 
lords:  Mercifully grant that the peoples of the earth, divided 
and enslaved by sin, may be freed and brought together
under his most gracious rule; who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day, or of Baptism* 


<Holy Days>


<Saint Andrew>  =November 30=

Almighty God, who didst give such grace to thine apostle 
Andrew that he readily obeyed the call of thy Son Jesus 
Christ, and brought his brother with him: Give us, who 
are called by thy Word, grace to follow him withoit delay, 
and to bring those near to us into his gracious presence; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Saint Thomas>  =December 21=

Everliving God, who didst strengthen thy apostle Thomas 
with firm and certain faith in thy Son's resurrection: Grant us 
so perfectly and without doubt to believe in Jesus Christ, our 
Lord and our God, that our faith may never be found wanting 
in thy sight; through him who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*

<page 186>


<Saint Stephen>  =December 26=

We give the thanks, O Lord of glory, for the example of the
first martyr Stephen, who looked up to heaven and prayed 
for his persecutors to thy Son Jesus Christ, who standeth at 
thy right hand; where he liveth and reigneth with thee and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<Saint John>  =December 27=

Shed upon thy Church, we beseech thee, O Lord, the 
brightness of thy light, that we, being illumined by the 
teaching of thine apostle and evangelist John, may so walk 
in the light of thy truth, that at length we may attain to the 
fullness of eternal life; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<The Holy Innocents>  *December 28*

We remember today, O God, the slaughter of the holy 
innocents of Bethlehem by the order of King Herod.  Receive, 
we beseech thee, into the arms of thy mercy all innocent 
victims; and by thy great might frustrate the designs of evil 
tyrants and establish thy rule of justice, love, and peace; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit,, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*

<page 187>


<Confession of Saint Peter>  =January 18=

Almighty Father, who didst inspired Simon Peter, first among 
the apostles, to confess Jesus as Messiah and Son of the living 
God: Keep thy Church steadfast upon the rock of this faith, 
so that in unity and peace we may proclaim the one truth and 
follow the one Lord, our Savior Jesus Christ; who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Conversion of Saint Paul>  =January 25=

O God, who, by the preaching of thine apostle Paul, hast
caused the light of the Gospel to shine throughout the world:  
Grant, we beseech thee, that we, having his wonderful 
conversion in remembrance, may show forth our thankfulness 
unto thee for the same by following the holy doctrine which 
he taught; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<The Presentation>  =February 2=

Almighty and everliving God, we humbly beseech thee that, 
as thy only-begotten Son was this day presented in the 
temple, so we may be presented to you with pure and 
clean hearts by the same Jesus Christ our Lord; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*

<page 188>


<Saint Matthias>  =February 24=

O Almighty God, who in the place of Judas didst chose thy 
faithful servant Matthias to of the number of the Twelve: 
Grant that thy Church, being delivered from false apostles, 
may always be ordered and guided by faithful and true pastors; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Saint Joseph>  =March 19=

O God, who from the family of thy servant David didst raise 
up Joseph to be the guardian of thy incarnate Son and the 
spouse of his virgin mother: Give us grace to imitate his 
uprightness of life and his obedience to thy commands; 
through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<The Annunciation>  =March 25=

We beseech thee, O Lord, pour thy grace into our hearts, that 
we who have known the incarnation of thy Son Jesus Christ, 
announced by an angel to the Virgin Mary, may by his cross 
and passion be brought to the glory of his resurrection; 
who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy 
Spirit, one God, now and for ever  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Mark>  =April 25=

Almighty God, who by the hand of Mark the evangelist hast
given to thy Church the Gospel of Jesus Christ the Son of 
<page 189>
God: We thank thee for this witness, and pray that we may 
be firmly grounded in its truth; through the same Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint Philip and Saint James>  =May 1=

Almighty God, who didst give to thine apostles Philip and 
James grace and strength to bear witness to the truth: Grant 
that we, being mindful of their victory of faith, may glorify in 
life and death the Name of our Lord Jesus Christ; who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now 
and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<The Visitation>  =May 31=

Father in heaven, by whose grace the virgin mother of thy 
incarnate Son was blessed in bearing him, but still more blessed 
in keeping thy word: Grant us who honor the exaltation of her 
lowliness to follow the example of her devotion to thy will; 
through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Barnabas>  =June 11=

Grant, O God, that we may follow the example of thy 
faithful servant Barnabas, who, seeking not his own renown 
but the well-being of thy Church, gave generously of his life 
and substance for the relief of the poor and the spread of the 
Gospel; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*

<page 190>


<The Nativity of Saint John the Baptist>  =June 24=

Almighty God, by whose providence thy servant John the 
Baptist was wonderfully born, and sent to prepare the way of 
thy Son our Savior by preaching repentance: Make us so to 
follow his doctrine and holy life, that we may truly repent 
according to his preaching; and, after his example, constantly 
speak the truth, boldly rebuke vice, and patiently suffer for 
the truth's sake; through the same Jesus Christ thy Son our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Advent*


<Saint Peter and Saint Paul>  =June 29=

Almighty God, whose blessed apostles Peter and Paul 
glorified you by their martyrdom: Grant that thy Church, 
instructed by their teaching and example, and knit together 
in unity by thy Spirit, may ever stand firm upon the one 
foundation, which is Jesus Christ our Lord; who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Independence Day>  =July 4=

Lord God Almighty, in whose Name the founders of this
country won liberty for themselves and for us, and lit the 
torch of freedom for nations then unborn:  Grant we beseech
thee, that we and all the people of this land may have grace 
to maintain our liberties in righteousness and peace; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*The Collect "For the Nation," page 258, may be used instead.*

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*

<page 191>


<Saint Mary Magdalene>  =July 22=

Almighty God, whose blessed Son restored Mary Magdalene
to health of body and mind, and called her to be a witness of 
his resurrection:  Mercifully grant that by thy grace we may 
be healed of all our infirmities and know thee in the power of 
his endless life; who with thee and the Holy Spirit liveth and 
reigneth, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint James>  =July 25=

O gracious God, we remember before thee this day thy 
servant and apostle James, first among the Twelve to suffer 
martyrdom for the Name of Jesus Christ; and we pray that 
thou wilt pour out upon the leaders of thy Church that spirit 
of self-denying service by which alone they may have true 
authority among thy people; through the same Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<The Transfiguration>  =August 6=

O God, who on the holy mount didst reveal to chosen 
witnesses thy well-beloved Son, wonderfully transfigured, in 
raiment white and glistening:  Mercifully grant that we, being 
delivered from the disquietude of this world, may by faith 
behold the King in his beauty; who with thee, O Father, and 
thee, O Holy Ghost, liveth and reigneth, one God, world
without end.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*

<page 192>


<Saint Mary the Virgin>  =August 15=

O God, you have taken to thyself the blessed Virgin Mary, 
mother of thy incarnate Son:  Grant that we, who have been 
redeemed by his blood, may share with her the glory of thine
eternal kingdom; through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<Saint Bartholomew>  =August 24=

Almighty and everlasting God, who gave to thine
apostle Bartholomew grace and truly to believe and preach thy 
Word:  Grant, we beseech thee, unto thy Church to love what 
he believed and to preach what he taught; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<Holy Cross Day>  =September 14=

Almighty God, whose Son our Savior Jesus Christ was lifted 
high upon the cross that he might draw the whole world unto 
himself:  Mercifully grant that we, who glory in the mystery 
of our redemption, may have grace to take up our cross and 
follow him; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Holy Week*


<Saint Matthew>  =September 21=

We thank you, heavenly Father, for the witness of thine
apostle and evangelist Matthew to the Gospel of thy Son our 
Savior; and we pray that, after his example, we may with 
ready wills and hearts obey the calling of our Lord to follow 
him; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<Saint Michael and All Angels>  =September 29=

O Everlasting God, who hast ordained and constituted the
ministries of angels and men in a wonderful order:  Mercifully 
grant that, as thy holy angels always serve and worship thee in 
heaven, so by thy appointment they may help and defend us 
on earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<Saint Luke>  =October 18=

Almighty God, who didst inspire thy servant Luke the 
physician to set forth in the Gospel the love and healing 
power of thy Son:  Graciously continue in thy Church the like
love and power to heal, to the praise and glory of thy Name; 
through the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint James of Jerusalem>  =October 23=

Grant, we beseech thee, O God, that after the example of thy 
servant James the Just, brother of our Lord, thy Church may 
give itself continually to prayer and to the reconciliation of 
all who are at variance and enmity; through the same our 
Lord Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint Simon and Saint Jude>  =October 28=

O God, we thank you for the glorious company of the 
apostles, and especially on this day for Simon and Jude; and 
we pray that, as they were faithful and zealous in their 
mission, so we may with ardent devotion make known the 
love and mercy of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<All Saint's Day>  =November 1=

Almighty God, who hast knit together thine elect in one 
communion and fellowship in the mystical body of thy Son 
Christ our Lord:  Give us grace so to follow thy blessed 
saints in all virtuous and godly living, that we may come to 
those ineffable joys that thou hast prepared for those who 
unfeignedly love thee; through the same Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who with thee and the Holy Spirit liveth and reigneth, 
one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Thanksgiving Day> 

Almighty and gracious Father, we give you thanks for the 
fruits of the earth in their season and for the labors of those 
who harvest them.  Make us, we beseech thee, faithful stewards 
of thy great bounty, for the provision of our necessities and 
the relief of all who are in need, to the glory of thy Name; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*For the Prayers of the People, the Litany of Thanksgiving on page 836 
may be used.* 

*Preface of Trinity Sunday* 


<The Common of Saints> 

*The festival of a saint is observed in accordance with the rules of 
precedence set forth in the Calendar of the Church year.* 
*At the discretion of the Celebrant, and as appropriate, any of the 
following Collects, with one of the corresponding sets of Psalms and 
Lessons, may be used* 

  a) at the commemoration of a saint listed in the Calendar for which no 
Proper is provided in this Book

  b) at the patronal festival or commemoration of a saint not listed in 
the Calendar.


<Of a Martyr> 

Almighty God, who didst give thy servant &N. boldness to
confess the Name of our Savior Jesus Christ before the rulers
of this world, and courage to die for this faith:  Grant that we
may always be ready to give a reason for the hope that is in
us, and to suffer gladly for the sake of the same our Lord 
Jesus Christ; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O Almighty God, by whose grace and power thy holy martyr
&N. triumphed over suffering and was faithful even unto 
death:  Grant us, who now remember =him= with thanksgiving, 
to be so faithful in our witness to thee in this world, that we 
may receive with =him= the crown of life; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or the following* 

<page 196>

Almighty and everlasting God, who didst enkindle the flame 
of thy love in the heart of thy holy martyr &N.:  Grant to us, 
thy humble servants, a like faith and power of love, that we 
who rejoice in =her= triumph may profit by =her= example; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of a Saint* 


<Of a Missionary>

Almighty and everlasting God, we thank you for thy
servant &N., whom you called to preach the Gospel to the 
people of &3em. (*or* to the &3em. people).  Raise
up, we beseech thee, in this and every land evangelists and 
heralds of thy kingdom, that thy Church may proclaim the 
unsearchable riches of our Savior Jesus Christ; who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now 
and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or the following*

Almighty God, who willest to be glorified in thy saints, and 
didst raise up thy servant &N. to be a light in the world; Shine, 
we pray, in our hearts, that we also in our generation 
may show forth thy praise, who hast called us out of darkness 
into thy marvelous light; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost*


<Of a Pastor>

Heavenly Father, Shepherd of thy people, we give thee 
thanks for thy servant &N., who was faithful in the care and 
nurture of thy flock; and we pray that, following his example 
and the teaching of his holy life, we may by thy grace grow 
<page 197>
into the stature of the fullness of our Lord and Savior Jesus 
Christ; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, our heavenly Father, who didst raise up thy faithful 
servant &N., to be a [bishop and] pastor in thy Church and to 
feed thy flock:  Give abundantly to all pastors the gifts of thy 
Holy Spirit, that they may minister in thy household as true 
servants of Christ and stewards of thy divine mysteries; 
through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*


<Of a Theologian and Teacher>

O God, who by thy Holy Spirit dost give to some the word of 
wisdom, to others the word of knowledge, and to others the 
word of faith:  We praise thy Name for the gifts of grace 
manifested in thy servant &N., and we pray that thy Church 
may never be destitute of such gifts; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who with thee and the Holy Spirit liveth and reigneth, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Almighty God, who didst give to thy servant &N. special 
gifts of grace to understand and teach the truth as it is in 
Christ Jesus: Grant, we beseech thee, that by this teaching we 
may know you, the one true God, and Jesus Christ whom 
thou hast sent; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint, or of Trinity Sunday*

<page 198>


<Of a Monastic>

O God, whose blessed Son became poor that we through his 
poverty might be rich:  Deliver us, we pray thee from an 
inordinate love of this world, that, inspired by the devotion 
of thy servant &N., we may serve thee with singleness of heart, 
and attain to the riches of the age to come; through the same
thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for 
ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, by whose grace thy servant &N., enkindled with the 
flame of thy love, became a burning and a shining light in thy
Church:  Grant that we also may be aflame with the spirit 
of love and discipline, and may ever walk before thee as 
children of light; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with 
thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, liveth and reigneth, one 
God, now and for ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*


<Of a Saint>

O Almighty God, who hast compassed us with so great 
a cloud of witnesses:  Grant that we, encouraged by the good 
example of thy servant &N., may persevere in running the race 
that is set before us, until at length,through thy mercy, we may 
with =him= attain to thine eternal joy; through Jesus Christ, the 
author and perfecter of our faith, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, who hast brought us near to an innumerable 
company of angels and to the spirits of just men made 
perfect:  Grant us during our earthly pilgrimage to abide in 
their fellowship, and in our heavenly country to become 
<page 199>
partakers of their joy; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O Almighty God, who by thy Holy Spirit hast made us one 
with thy saints in heaven and on earth:  Grant that in our 
earthly pilgrimage we may ever be supported by this 
fellowship of love and prayer, and know ourselves 
to be surrounded by their witness to thy power and mercy.  
We ask this for the sake of Jesus Christ, in whom all our 
intercessions are acceptable through the Spirit, and who 
liveth and reigneth for ever and ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*


<Various Occasions>

*For optional use, when desire, subject to the rules set forth in the 
Calendar of the Church Year.*


<1. Of the Holy Trinity>

Almighty God, who hast revealed to thy Church thine eternal
Being of glorious majesty and perfect love as one God in 
Trinity of Persons:  Give us grace to continue steadfast in the 
confession of this faith, and constant in our worship of the, 
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; for you live and reign, one 
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*

<page 200>


<2. Of the Holy Spirit>

Almighty and most merciful God, grant, we beseech thee,
that by the indwelling of thy Holy Spirit we may be enlightened 
and strengthened for thy service; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost*


<3. Of the Holy Angels>

O Everlasting God, who hast ordained and constituted the
ministries of angels and men in a wonderful order: Mercifully 
grant that, as thy holy angels always serve and worship thee in 
heaven, so by thy appointment they may help and defend us 
on earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<4. Of the Incarnation>

O God, who didst wonderfully create, and yet more 
wonderfully restore, the dignity of human nature:  Grant 
that we may share the divine life of him who humbled 
himself to share our humanity, thy Son Jesus Christ; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*

<page 201>


<5.  Of the Holy Eucharist>

*Especially suitable for Thursdays*

God our Father, whose Son our Lord Jesus Christ in a
wonderful Sacrament hath left unto us a memorial of his 
passion: Grant us so to venerate the sacred mysteries of his 
Body and Blood, that we may ever perceive within ourselves 
the fruit of his redemption; who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<6. Of the Holy Cross>

*Especially suitable for Fridays*

Almighty God, whose beloved Son willingly endured the 
agony and shame of the cross for our redemption:  Give us 
courage, we beseech thee, to take up our cross and follow 
him; who liveth and reigneth with you and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Holy Week*


<7. For all Baptized Christians>

*Especially suitable for Saturdays*

Grant, O Lord God, to all who have been baptized into the
death and resurrection of thy Son Jesus Christ, that, as we
have put away the old life of sin, so we may be renewed in
the spirit of our minds, and live in righteousness and true 
holiness; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one 
God, now and for ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism*

<page 202>


<8. For the Departed>

O eternal Lord God, who holdest all souls in life:  Give, we
beseech thee, to thy whole Church in paradise and on earth 
thy light and thy peace; and grant that we, following the 
good examples of those who have served you here and are 
now at rest, may at the last enter with them into thine 
unending joy; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Almighty God, we remember this day before thee thy faithful 
servant &N.; and we pray that, having opened to =him= the gates 
of larger life, thou wilt receive =him= more and more into thy 
joyful service, that, with all who have faithfully served thee in 
the past, =he= may share in the eternal victory of Jesus Christ 
our Lord; who liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of 
the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Any of the Collects appointed for use at the Burial of the Dead may be 
used instead.*

*For the Prayers of the People, one of the forms appointed for the 
Burial of the Dead may be used.*

*Preface to the Commemoration of the Dead*

*The postcommunion prayer on page 498 may be used.*


<9. Of the Reign of Christ>

Almighty and everlasting God, whose will it is to restore all
things in thy well-beloved Son, the King of kings and Lord of 
<page 203>
lords:  Mercifully grant that the peoples of the earth, divided 
and enslaved by sin, may be freed and brought together 
under his most gracious rule; who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Ascension, or of Baptism*


<10.  At Baptism>

Almighty God, who by our baptism into the death and 
resurrection of thy Son Jesus Christ dost turn us from the old 
life of sin: Grant that we, being reborn to new life in him, 
may live in righteousness and holiness all our days; through 
the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and 
for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism*


<11. At Confirmation>

Grant, Almighty God, that we, who have been redeemed
from the old life of sin by our baptism into the death and 
resurrection of thy Son Jesus Christ, may be renewed in thy 
Holy Spirit, and live in righteousness and true holiness; 
through the same Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and 
for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of Pentecost*

<page 204>


<12. On the Anniversary of the Dedication of a Church>

Almighty God, to whose glory we celebrate the dedication 
of this house of prayer:  We give thee thanks for the fellowship
of those who have worshiped in this place, and we pray that 
all who seek thee here may find thee, and be filled with thy 
joy and peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*The Litany of Thanksgiving for a Church, page 578, may be used for the 
Prayers of the People.*

*Preface of the Dedication of a Church*


<13.  For a Church Convention>

Almighty and everlasting Father, who hast given the Holy
Spirit to abide with us for ever:  Bless, we beseech thee, with 
his grace and presence, the bishops and other clergy and 
the laity here (*or* now, *or* soon to be) assembled in thy Name, 
that thy Church, being preserved in true faith and godly
discipline, may fulfill all the mind of him who loved it and 
gave himself for it, thy Son Jesus Christ our Savior; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the same Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost, or of the Season*


<14.  For the Unity of the Church>

Almighty Father, whose blessed Son before his passion 
prayed for his disciples that they might be one, even as thou
and he are one: Grant that thy Church, being bound together 
in love and obedience to thee, may be united in one body by 
the one Spirit, that the world may believe in him whom thou 
<page 205>
didst send, the same thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the same Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of Trinity Sunday*


<15.  For the Ministry (Ember Days)>

*For use on the traditional days or at other times*


<I.  For those to be ordained>

Almighty God, the giver of all good gifts, in thy divine 
providence hast appointed various orders in thy Church:  
Give thy grace, we humbly beseech thee, to all who are [now]
called to any office and ministry for thy people; and so fill 
them with the truth of thy doctrine and clothe them with 
holiness of life, that they may faithfully serve before thee, to 
the glory of thy great Name and for the benefit of thy holy 
Church; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<II.  For the choice of fit persons for the ministry>

O God, who didst lead thy holy apostles to ordain ministers 
in every place:  Grant that thy Church, under the guidance of 
the Holy Spirit, may choose suitable persons for the ministry 
of Word and Sacrament, and may uphold them in their work 
for the extension of thy kingdom; through him who is the 
Shepherd and Bishop of our souls, Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 206>


<III. For all Chistians in their vocation>

Almighty and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole
body of thy faithful people is governed and sanctified: 
Receive our supplications and prayers, which we offer before
thee for all members of thy holy Church, that in their 
vocation and ministry they may truly and devoutly serve thee; 
through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee, in the unity of the same Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of the Season*


<16. For the Mission of the Church>

O God, who hast made of one blood all the peoples of the 
earth, and sent thy blessed Son to preach peace to those
who are far off and to those who are near:  Grant that people 
everywhere may seek after thee and find thee, bring the 
nations into thy fold, pour out thy Spirit upon all flesh, and 
hasten the coming of thy kingdom; through the same thy
Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God of all the nations of the earth:  Remember the
multitudes who have been created in thine image but have 
not known the redeeming work of our Savior Jesus Christ; 
and grant that, by the prayers and labors of thy holy Church, 
they may be brought to know and worship thee as thou hast
been revealed in thy Son; who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season, or of Pentecost*


<17. For the Nation>

Lord God Almighty, who hast made all the peoples of the earth 
for thy glory, to serve you in freedom and in peace: Give to 
the people of our country a zeal for justice and the strength 
of forbearance, that we may use our liberty in accordance 
with thy gracious will; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*The Collect for Independence Day may be used instead.*

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<18. For Peace>

Almighty God, kindle, we beseech thee, in every heart the 
true love of peace, and guide with thy wisdom those who 
take counsel for the nations of the earth, that in tranquillity 
thy dominion may increase till the earth is filled with the 
knowledge of thy love; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<19. For Rogation Days>

*For use on the traditional days or at other times*


<I. For fruitful seasons>

Almighty God, Lord of heaven and earth:  We humbly pray
that thy gracious providence may give and preserve to our 
use the harvests of the land and of the seas, and may prosper 
all who labor to gather them, that we, who constantly receive 
good things from thy hand, may always give thee thanks; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 208>


<II. For Commerce and Industry>

Almighty God, whose Son Jesus Christ in his earthly life 
shared our toil and hallowed our labor:  Be present with 
thy people where they work; make those who carry on 
the industries and commerce of this land responsive to thy 
will; and give to us all a pride in what we do, and a just 
return for our labor; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<III. For stewardship of creation>

O merciful Creator, thy hand is open wide to satisfy the 
needs of every living creature:  Make us, we beseech thee,
ever thankful for thy loving providence; and grant that we, 
remembering the account that we must one day give, may be 
faithful stewards of thy good gifts; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord, who with thee and the Holy Spirit liveth and reigneth, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<20. For the Sick>

Heavenly Father, giver of life and health:  Comfort and 
relieve thy sick servants, and give thy power of healing to 
those who minister to their needs, that those (*or* &N., *or* &NN.) 
for whom our prayers are offered may be strengthened in
=their= weakness and have confidence in thy loving care; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with 
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

*The postcommunion prayer on page 457 may be used.*

<page 209>


<21. For Social Justice>

Almighty God, who hast created us in thine own image:  
Grant us grace fearlessly to contend against evil and to make 
no peace with oppression; and, that we may reverently use 
our freedom, help us to employ it in the maintenance of 
justice in our communities and among the nations, to the 
glory of thy holy Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<22. For Social Service>

O Lord our heavenly Father, whose blessed Son came not to 
be served but to serve:  Bless, we beseech thee, all 
who, following in his steps, give themselves to the service of 
others; that with wisdom, patience, and courage, they may 
minister in his name to the suffering, the friendless, and the 
needy; for the love of him who laid down his life for us, the same
thy Son our Savior Jesus Christ, who liveth and reigneth 
with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  
=Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<23. For Education>

Almighty God, the fountain of all wisdom:  Enlighten by thy 
Holy Spirit those who teach and those who learn, that, 
rejoicing in the knowledge of thy truth, they may worship 
you and serve you from generation to generation; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee 
and the same Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 210>


<24. For Vocation in Daily Work>

Almighty God our heavenly Father, who declarest thy glory 
and showest forth thy handiwork in the heavens and in the 
earth:  Deliver us, we beseech thee, in our various occupations 
from the service of self alone, that we may do the work 
which thou givest us to do in truth and beauty and for the 
common good; for the sake of him who came among us as 
one that serveth, thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth 
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.=


<25. For Labor Day>

Almighty God, who hast so linked our lives one with another 
that all we do affects, for good or ill, all other lives:  So guide 
us in the work we do, that we may do it not for self alone, but 
for the common good; and, as we seek a proper return for
our own labor, make us mindful of the rightful aspirations of 
other workers, and arouse our concern for those who are out
of work; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and 
reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 211> 



<Collects:  Contemporary> 


<First Sunday of Advent>

Almighty God, give us grace to cast away the works of
darkness, and put on the armor of light, now in the time of
this mortal life in which your Son Jesus Christ came to visit
us in great humility; that in the last day, when he shall come
again in his glorious majesty to judge both the living and the
dead, we may rise to the life immortal; through him who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 


<Second Sunday of Advent>

Merciful God, who sent your messengers the prophets to
preach repentance and prepare the way for our salvation:
Give us grace to heed their warnings and forsake our sins,
that we may greet with joy the coming of Jesus Christ our
Redeemer; who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 

<page 211> 


<Third Sunday of Advent>

Stir up your power, O Lord, and with great might come
among us; and, because we are sorely hindered by our sins,
let your bountiful grace and mercy speedily help and deliver
us; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with you and
the Holy Spirit, be honor and glory, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional winter
Ember Days.* 


<Fourth Sunday of Advent>

Purify our conscience, Almighty God, by your daily visitation,
that your Son Jesus Christ, at his coming, may find in us a
mansion prepared for himself; who lives and reigns with you,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of Advent* 


<The Nativity of Our Lord:  Christmas Day>  =December 25= 

O God, you make us glad by the yearly festival of the birth
of your only Son Jesus Christ:  Grant that we, who joyfully
receive him as our Redeemer, may with sure confidence
behold him when he comes to be our Judge; who lives and
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, you have caused this holy night to shine with the
brightness of the true Light:  Grant that we, who have known
the mystery of that Light on earth, may also enjoy him
perfectly in heaven; where with you and the Holy Spirit he
lives and reigns, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.= 

<page 213> 

*or this* 

Almighty God, you have given your only-begotten Son to
take our nature upon him, and to be born [this day] of a pure
virgin:  Grant that we, who have been born again and made
your children by adoption and grace, may daily be renewed
by your Holy Spirit; through our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom
with you and the same Spirit be honor and glory, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 

*The Collect immediately preceding and any of the sets of Proper Lessons
for Christmas Day serve for any weekdays between Holy Innocents' Day
and the First Sunday after Christmas Day.* 


<First Sunday after Christmas Day>

*This Sunday takes precedence over the three Holy Days which follow
Christmas Day.  As necessary, the observance of one, two, or all three
of them, is postponed one day.* 

Almighty God, you have poured upon us the new light of
your incarnate Word:  Grant that this light, enkindled in our
hearts, may shine forth in our lives; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 


<The Holy Name>  =January 1= 

Eternal Father, you gave to your incarnate Son the holy name
of Jesus to be the sign of our salvation:  Plant in every heart,
we pray, the love of him who is the Savior of the world, our
Lord Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 


<Second Sunday after Christmas Day>

O God, who wonderfully created, and yet more wonderfully
restored, the dignity of human nature:  Grant that we may
share the divine life of him who humbled himself to share
our humanity, you Son Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns
with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Incarnation* 


<The Epiphany>  =January 6= 

O God, by the leading of a star you manifested your only Son
to the Peoples of the earth:  Lead us, who know you now by
faith, to your presence, where we may see your glory face to
face; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 

*The preceding Collect, with the Psalm and Lessons for the Epiphany, or
those for the Second Sunday after Christmas, serves for weekdays
between the Epiphany and the following Sunday.  The Preface of the
Epiphany is used.* 


<First Sunday after the Epiphany:  The Baptism of our Lord>

Father in heaven, who at the baptism of Jesus in the River
Jordan proclaimed him your beloved Son and anointed him
with the Holy Spirit:  Grant that all who are baptized into his
Name may keep the covenant they have made, and boldly
confess him as Lord and Savior; who with you and the Holy
Spirit lives and reigns, one God, in glory everlasting. =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 

<page 215> 


<Second Sunday after the Epiphany>

Almighty God, whose Son our Savior Jesus Christ is the light
of the world:  Grant that your people, illumined by your Word
and Sacraments, may shine with the radiance of Christ's
glory, that he may be known, worshiped, and obeyed to the
ends of the earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with
you and the Holy Spirit lives and reigns, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Third Sunday after the Epiphany>

Give us grace, O Lord, to answer readily the call of our
Savior Jesus Christ and proclaim to all people the Good News
of his salvation, that we and the whole world may perceive
the glory of his marvelous works; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day*


<Fourth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Almighty and everlasting God, you govern all things both in
heaven and on earth:  Mercifully hear the supplications of
your people, and in our time grant us your peace; through
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 

<page 216>


<Fifth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Set us free, O God, from the bondage of our sins, and give us
the liberty of that abundant life which you have made known
to us in your Son our Savior Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns
with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Sixth Sunday after the Epiphany>

O God, the strength of all who put their trust in you:
Mercifully accept our prayers; and because in our weakness
we can do nothing good without you, give us the help of your
grace, that in keeping your commandments we may please
you both in will and deed; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Seventh Sunday after the Epiphany>

O Lord, you have taught us that without love whatever we
do is worth nothing; Send your Holy Spirit and pour into our
hearts your greatest gift, which is love, the true bond of peace
and of all virtue, without which whoever lives is accounted
dead before you.  Grant this for the sake of your only Son
Jesus Christ, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Eighth Sunday after the Epiphany>

Most loving Father, whose will it is for us to give thanks for
all things, to fear nothing but the loss of you, and to cast all
<page 217>
our care on you who care for us:  Preserve us from faithless
fears and worldly anxieties, that no clouds of this mortal life
may hide from us the light of that love which is immortal,
and which you have manifested to us in your Son Jesus Christ
our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany, or of the Lord's Day* 


<Last Sunday after the Epiphany>

*This Proper is always used on the Sunday before Ash Wednesday* 

O God, who before the passion of your only-begotten Son
revealed his glory upon the holy mountain:  Grant to us that
we, beholding by faith the light of his countenance, may be
strengthened to bear our cross, and be changed into his
likeness from glory to glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Epiphany* 


<Ash Wednesday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 264.* 

Almighty and everlasting God, you hate nothing you have
made and forgive the sins of all who are penitent:  Create and
make in us new and contrite hearts, that we, worthily
lamenting our sins and acknowledging our wretchedness,
may obtain of you, the God of all mercy, perfect remission
and forgiveness; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 

*This Collect, with the corresponding Psalm and Lessons, also serves for
the weekdays which follow, except as otherwise appointed. 

<page 218> 


<First Sunday in Lent>

Almighty God, whose blessed Son was led by the Spirit to be
tempted by Satan; Come quickly to help us who are assaulted
by many temptations; and, as you know the weaknesses of
each of us, let each one find you mighty to save; through
Jesus Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional spring
Ember Days.* 


<Second Sunday in Lent>

O God, whose glory it is always to have mercy:  Be gracious
to all who have gone astry from your ways, and bring them
again with penitent hearts and steadfast faith to embrace and
hold fast the unchangeable truth of your Word, Jesus Christ
your Son; who with you and the Holy Spirit lives and reigns,
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Third Sunday in Lent>

Almighty God, you know that we have no power in ourselves
to help ourselves:  Keep us both outwardly in our bodies and
inwardly in our souls, that we may be defended from all
adversities which may happen to the body, and from all evil
thoughts which may assault and hurt the soul; through Jesus
Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 

<page 219>


<Fourth Sunday in Lent>

Gracious Father, whose blessed Son Jesus Christ came down
from heaven to be the true bread which gives life to the world:
Evermore give us this bread, that he may live in us, and we in
him; who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 


<Fifth Sunday in Lent>

Almighty God, you alone can bring into order the unruly
wills and affections of sinners:  Grant your people grace to
love what you command and desire what you promise; that,
among the swift and varied changes of the world, our hearts
may surely there be fixed where true joys are to be found;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Lent* 


<Sunday of the Passion:  Palm Sunday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 270.* 

Almighty and everliving God, in your tender love for the
human race you sent your Son our Savior Jesus Christ to
take upon him our nature, and to suffer death upon the cross,
giving us the example of his great humility:  Mercifully grant
that we may walk in the way of his suffering, and also share
in his resurrection; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 

<page 220> 


<Monday in Holy Week>

Almighty God, whose dear Son went not up to joy but
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he
was crucified:  Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way
of the cross, may find it none other that the way of life and
peace; through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Tuesday in Holy Week>

O God, by the passion of your blessed Son you made an
instrument of shameful death to be for us the means of life:
Grant us so to glory in the cross of Christ, that we may gladly
suffer shame and loss for the sake of your Son our Savior
Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 


<Wednesday in Holy Week>

Lord God, whose blessed Son our Savior gave his body to be
whipped and his face to be spit upon:  Give us grace to accept
joyfully the sufferings of the present time, confident of the
glory that shall be revealed; through Jesus Christ your Son our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Maundy Thursday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 274.* 

Almighty Father, whose dear Son, on the night before he
suffered, instituted the Sacrament of his Body and Blood:
Mercifully grant that we may receive it thankfully in
remembrance of Jesus Christ our Lord, who in these holy
mysteries gives us a pledge of eternal life; and who now lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Holy Week* 


<Good Friday>

*The Proper Liturgy for this day is on page 276.* 

Almighty God, we pray you graciously to behold this your
family, for whom our Lord Jesus Christ was willing to be
betrayed, and given into the hands of sinners, and to suffer
death upon the cross; who now lives and reigns with you and
the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

<page 222> 


<Easter Day>

*The Liturgy of the Easter Vigil is on page 285.* 

O God, who for our redemption gave your only-begotten
Son to the death of the cross, and by his glorious resurrection
delivered us from the power of our enemy:  Grant us so to die
daily to sin, that we may evermore live with him in the joy of
his resurrection; through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, who made this most holy night to shine with the
glory of the Lord's resurrection:  Stir up in your Church that
Spirit of adoption which is given to us in Baptism, that we,
being renewed both in body and mind, may worship you in
sincerity and truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Almighty God, who through your only-begotten Son Jesus
Christ overcame death and opened to us the gate of
everlasting life:  Grant that we, who celebrate with joy the
day of the Lord's resurrection, may be raised from the death
of sin by your life-giving Spirit; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Monday in Easter Week>

Grant, we pray, Almighty God, that we who celebrate with
awe the Paschal feast may be found worthy to attain to
<page 223>
everlasting joys; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Tuesday in Easter Week>

O God, who by the glorious resurrection of your Son Jesus
Christ destroyed death and brought life and immortality to
light:  Grant that we, who have been raised with him, may
abide in his presence and rejoice in the hope of eternal glory;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with you and the 
Holy Spirit, be dominion and praise for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Wednesday in Easter Week>

O God, whose blessed Son made himself known to his
disciples in the breaking of bread:  Open the eyes of our faith,
that we may behold him in all his redeeming work; who lives
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Thursday in Easter Week>

Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery
established the new covenant of reconciliation:  Grant that all
who have been reborn into the fellowship of Christ's Body
may show forth in their lives what they profess by their faith;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 

<page 224> 


<Friday in Easter Week>

Almighty Father, who gave your only Son to die for our sins
and to rise for our justification:  Give us grace so to put away
the leaven of malice and wickedness, that we may always
serve you in pureness of living and truth; through Jesus
Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Saturday in Easter Week>

We thank you, heavenly Father, that you have delivered us
from the dominion of sin and death and brought us into the
kingdom of your Son; and we pray that, as by his death he
has recalled us to life, so by his love he may raise us to eternal
joys; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and forever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Second Sunday of Easter>

Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery
established the new covenant of reconciliation:  Grant that all
who have been reborn into the fellowship of Christ's Body
may show forth in their lives what they profess by their faith;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Third Sunday of Easter>

O God, whose blessed Son made himself known to his
disciples in the breaking of bread:  Open the eyes of our faith,
that we may behold him in all his redeeming work; who lives
<page 225>
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Fourth Sunday of Easter>

O God, whose Son Jesus is the good shepherd of your people;
Grant that when we hear his voice we may know him who
calls us each by name, and follow where he leads; who, with
you and the Holy Spirit, lives and reigns, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Fifth Sunday of Easter>

Almighty god, whom truly to know is everlasting life:  Grant
us so perfectly to know your Son Jesus Christ to be the way,
the truth, and the life, that we may steadfastly follow his
steps in the way that leads to eternal life; through Jesus Christ
your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the unity
of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 


<Sixth Sunday of Easter>

O God, you have prepared for those who love you such good
things as surpass our understanding:  Pour into our hearts such
love towards you, that we, loving you in all things and above
all things, may obtain your promises, which exceed all that we
can desire; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Easter* 

*Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of this week are the traditional
Rogation Days.* 

<page 226> 


<Ascension Day>

Almighty God, whos blessed Son our Savior Jesus Christ
ascended far above all heavens that he might fill all things:
Mercifully give us faith to perceive that, according to his
promise, he abides with his Church on earth, even to the end
of the ages; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, in glory
everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Grant, we pray, Almighty God, that as we believe your
only-begotten Son our Lord Jesus Christ to have ascended
into heaven, so we may also in heart and mind there ascend,
and with him continually dwell; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Ascension* 

*Either of the preceding Collects, with the proper Psalm and Lessons for
Ascension Day, serves for the following weekdays, except as otherwise
appointed.* 


<Seventh Sunday of Easter:  The Sunday after Ascension Day>

O God, the King of glory, you have exalted your only Son
Jesus Christ with great triumph to your kingdom in heaven:
Do not leave us comfortless, but send us your Holy Spirit to
strengthen us, and exalt us to that place where our Savior
Christ has gone before; who lives and reigns with you and
the Holy Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Ascension* 

<Page 227> 


<The Day of Pentecost:  Whitsunday>

*When a Vigil of Pentecost is observed, it begins with the Service of  
Light, page 109 (substituting, if desired, the Gloria in Excelsis for 
the Phos hilaron), and continues with the Salutation and Collect of the 
Day.  Three or more of the appointed Lessons are read before the Gospel, 
each followed by a Psalm, Canticle, or hymn.  Holy Baptism or 
Confirmation (beginning with the Presentation of the Candidates), or the 
Renewal of Baptismal Vows, page 292, follows the Sermon.* 

Almighty God, on this day you opened the way of eternal life
to every race and nation by the promised gift of your Holy
Spirit:  Shed abroad this gift throughout the world by the
preaching of the Gospel, that it may reach to the ends of the
earth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, who on this day taught the hearts of your faithful
people by sending to them the light of your Holy Spirit:
Grant us by the same Spirit to have a right judgment in all
things, and evermore to rejoice in his holy comfort; through
Jesus Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Pentecost* 

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost in that year is used.  See page 
158.* 

*Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of this week are the traditional summer
Ember Days.* 

<Page 228> 


<First Sunday after Pentecost:  Trinity Sunday>

Almighty and everlasting God, you have given to us
your servants grace, by the confession of a true faith, to
acknowledge the glory of the eternal Trinity, and in the
power of your divine Majesty to worship the Unity:  Keep
us steadfast in this faith and worship, and bring us at last to
see you in your one and eternal glory, O Father; who with
the Son and the Holy Spirit live and reign, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of Trinity Sunday* 

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday in that year is used.* 


<The Season after Pentecost> 

*Directions for the use of the Propers which follow are on page 158.* 

<Proper 1>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Remember, O Lord, what you have wrought in us and not
what we deserve; and, as you have called us to your service,
make us worthy of our calling; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*No Proper Preface is used.* 


<Proper 2>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 18=

Almighty and merciful God, in your goodness keep us, we
pray, from all things that may hurt us, that we, being ready
<page 229>
both in mind and body, may accomplish with free hearts
those things which belong to your purpose; through Jesus
Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*No Proper Preface is used.* 


<Proper 3>  =The Sunday closest to May 25=

Grant, O Lord, that the course of this world may be
peaceably governed by your providence; and that your
Church may joyfully serve you in confidence and serenity;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 4>  =The Sunday closest to June 1=

O God, your never-failing providence sets in order all things
both in heaven and earth:  Put away from us, we entreat you,
all hurtful things, and give us those things which are profitable
for us; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 5>  =The Sunday closest to June 8=

O God, from whom all good proceeds:  Grant that by your
inspiration we may think those things that are right, and by
your merciful guiding may do them; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 230> 


<Proper 6>  =The Sunday closest to June 15=

Keep, O Lord, your household the Church in your steadfast
faith and love, that through your grace we may proclaim
your truth with boldness, and minister your justice with
compassion; for the sake of our Savior Jesus Christ, who
lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now
and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 7>  =The Sunday closest to June 22=

O Lord, make us have perpetual love and reverence for your
holy Name, for you never fail to help and govern those whom
you have set upon the sure foundation of your loving-kindness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 8>  =The Sunday closest to June 29=

Almighty God, you have built your Church upon the
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself
being the chief cornerstone:  Grant us so to be joined together
in unity of spirit by their teaching, that we may be made a
holy temple acceptable to you; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface to the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 9>  =The Sunday closest to July 6=

O God, you have taught us to keep all your commandments
by loving you and our neighbor:  Grant us the grace of your
Holy Spirit, that we may be devoted to your with our whole
<page 231>
heart, and united to one another with pure affection; through
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 10>  =The Sunday closest to July 13=

O Lord, mercifully receive the prayers of your people who
call upon you, and grant that they may know and understand
what things they ought to do, and also may have grace and
power faithfully to accomplish them; through Jesus Christ
our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit,
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 11>  =The Sunday closest to July 20=

Almighty God, the fountain of all wisdom, you know our
necessities before we ask and our ignorance in asking:  Have
compassion on our weakness, and mercifully give us those
things which for our unworthiness we dare not, and for our
blindness we cannot ask; through the worthiness of your Son
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 


*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 12>  =The Sunday closest to July 27=

O god, the protector of all who trust in you, without whom
nothing is strong, nothing is holy:  Increase and multiply upon
us your mercy; that, with you as our ruler and guide, we may so
pass through things temporal, that we lose not the things eternal;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface to the Lord's Day* 

<page 232> 


<Proper 13>  =The Sunday closest to August 3=

Let your continual mercy, O Lord, cleanse and defend your
Church; and, because it cannot continue in safety without
your help, protect and govern it always by your goodness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


<Proper 14>  =The Sunday closest to August 10=

Grant to us, Lord, we pray, the spirit to think and do always
those things that are right, that we, who cannot exist without
you, may by you be enabled to live according to your will;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 15>  =The Sunday closest to August 17=

Almighty God, you have given your only Son to be for us a
sacrifice for sin, and also an example of godly life:  Give us
grace to receive thankfully the fruits of this redeeming work,
and to follow daily in the blessed steps of his most holy life;
through Jesus Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 16>  =The Sunday closest to August 24=

Grant, O merciful God, that your Church, being gathered
together in unity by your Holy Spirit, may show forth your
power among all peoples, to the glory of your Name;
<page 233>
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirt, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 17>  =The Sunday closest to August 31=

Lord of all power and might, the author and giver of all good
things:  Graft in our hearts the love of your Name; increase in
us true religion; nourish us with all goodness; and bring forth
in us the fruit of good works; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 18>  =The Sunday closest to September 7=

Grant us, O Lord, to trust in you with all our hearts; for, as
you always resist the proud who confide in their own strength,
so you never forsake those who make their boast of your
mercy; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 19>  =The Sunday closest to September 14=

O God, because without you we are not able to please you,
mercifully grant that your Holy Spirit may in all things direct
and rule our hearts; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

*The Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday after September 14 are the
traditional autumnal Ember Days.* 

<page 234> 


<Proper 20>  =The Sunday closest to September 21=

Grant us, Lord, not to be anxious about earthly things, but to
love things heavenly; and even now, while we are placed among
things that are passing away, to hold fast to those that shall
endure; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<Proper 21>  =The Sunday closest to September 28=

O God, you declare your almighty power chiefly in showing
mercy and pity:  Grant us the fullness of your grace, that we,
running to obtain your promises, may become partakers of
your heavenly treasure; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who
lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for
ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 22>  =The Sunday closest to October 5=

Almighty and everlasting God, you are always more ready to
hear than we to pray, and to give more than we either desire
or deserve:  Pour upon us the abundance of your mercy,
forgiving us those things of which our conscience is afraid,
and giving us those good things for which we are not worthy
to ask, except through the merits and mediation of Jesus
Christ our Savior; who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 23>  =The Sunday closest to October 12=

Lord, we pray that your grace may always precede and
follow us, that we may continually be given to good works;
<page 235>
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 24>  =The Sunday closest to October 19=

Almighty and everlasting God, in Christ you have revealed
your glory among the nations:  Preserve the works of your
mercy, that your Church throughout the world may
persevere with steadfast faith in the confession of your
Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
=Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 25>  =The Sunday closest to October 26=

Almighty and everlasting God, increase in us the gifts of
faith, hope, and charity; and, that we may obtain what you
promise, make us love what you command; through Jesus
Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 26>  =The Sunday closest to November 2=

Almighty and merciful God, it is only by your gift that your
faithful people offer you true and laudable service:  Grant
that we may run without stumbling to obtain your heavenly
promises; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for
ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 

<page 236> 

<Proper 27>  =The Sunday closest to November 9=

O God, whose blessed Son came into the world that he might
destroy the works of the devil and make us children of God
and heirs of eternal life:  Grant that, having this hope, we may
purify ourselves as he is pure; that, when he comes again
with power and great glory, we may be made like him in his
eternal and glorious kingdom; where he lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 28>  =The Sunday closest to November 16=

Blessed Lord, who caused all holy Scriptures to be written for
our learning:  Grant us so to hear them, read, mark, learn,
and inwardly digest them, that we may embrace and ever
hold fast the blessed hope of everlasting life, which you have
given us in our Savior Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day* 


<Proper 29>  =The Sunday closest to November 23=

Almighty and everlasting God, whose will it is to restore all
things in your well-beloved Son, the King of kings and Lord of
lords:  Mercifully grant that the peoples of the earth, divided
and enslaved by sin, may be freed and brought together
under his most gracious rule; who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of the Lord's Day, or of Baptism* 

<page 237>

<Holy Days>


<Saint Andrew>  =November 30=

Almighty God, who gave such grace to your apostle Andrew 
that he readily obeyed the call of your Son Jesus Christ, and 
brought his brother with him: Give us, who are called by 
your holy Word, grace to follow him withoit delay, and to 
bring those near to us into his gracious presence; who lives 
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and 
for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Saint Thomas>  =December 21=

Everliving God, who strengthened your apostle Thomas with 
firm and certain faith in your Son's resurrection: Grant us so 
perfectly and without doubt to believe in Jesus Christ, our 
Lord and our God, that our faith may never be found wanting 
in your sight; through him who lives and reigns with yuo and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Saint Stephen>  =December 26=

We give you thanks, O Lord of glory, for the example of 
the first martyr Stephen, who looked up to heaven and prayed 
for his persecutors to your Son Jesus Christ, who stands at 
your right hand; where he lives and reigns with you and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*

<page 238>


<Saint John>  =December 27=

Shed upon your Church, O Lord, the brightness of your light, 
that we, being illumined by the teaching of your apostle and 
evangelist John, may so walk in the light of your truth, that 
at length we may attain to the fullness of eternal life; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<The Holy Innocents>  *December 28*

We remember today, O God, the slaughter of the holy 
innocents of Bethlehem by King Herod.  Receive, we pray, 
into the arms of your mercy all innocent victims; and by your 
great might frustrate the designs of evil tyrants and establish 
your rule of justice, love, and peace; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the 
Holy Spirit,, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<Confession of Saint Peter>  =January 18=

Almighty Father, who inspired Saint Peter, first among the 
apostles, to confess Jesus as Messiah and Son of the living God: 
Keep your Church steadfast upon the rock of this faith, so that 
in unity and peace we may proclaim the one truth and follow 
the one Lord, our Savior Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with 
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Conversion of Saint Paul>  =January 25=

O God, by the preaching of your apostle Paul you have 
caused the light of the Gospel to shine throughout the world: 
<page 239> 
Grant, we pray, that we, having his wonderful conversion in 
remembrance, may show ourselves thankful to you by following 
his holy teaching; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives 
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<The Presentation>  =February 2=

Almighty and everliving God, we humbly pray that, as your 
only-begotten Son was this day presented in the temple, so 
we may be presented to you with pure and clean hearts by 
Jesus Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Matthias>  =February 24=

Almighty God, who in the place of Judas chose your faithful 
servant Matthias to be numbered among the Twelve: Grant that 
your Church, being delivered from false apostles, may always 
be guided and governed by faithful and true pastors; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the 
unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<Saint Joseph>  =March 19=

O God, who from the family of your servant David raised 
up Joseph to be the guardian of your incarnate Son and the 
spouse of his virgin mother: Give us grace to imitate his 
uprightness of life and his obedience to your commands; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with 
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever. =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*

<page 240>

<The Annunciation>  =March 25=

Pour your grace into our hearts, O Lord, that we who have 
known the incarnation of your Son Jesus Christ, announced 
by an angel to the Virgin Mary, may by his cross and passion 
be brought to the glory of his resurrection; who lives and 
reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now 
and for ever  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Mark>  =April 25=

Almighty God, by the hand of Mark the evangelist you have 
given to your Church the Gospel of Jesus Christ the Son of 
God: We thank you for this witness, and pray that we may be 
firmly grounded in its truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, 
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint Philip and Saint James>  =May 1=

Almighty God, who gave to your apostles Philip and James grace 
and strength to bear witness to the truth: Grant that we, being 
mindful of their victory of faith, may glorify in life and death the 
Name of our Lord Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with you 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<The Visitation>  =May 31=

Father in heaven, by your grace the virgin mother of your 
incarnate Son was blessed in bearing him, but still more 
blessed in keeping your word: Grant us who honor the 
exaltation of her lowliness to follow the example of her 
devotion to your will; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who 
<page 241>
lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for 
ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Barnabas>  =June 11=

Grant, O God, that we may follow the example of your 
faithful servant Barnabas, who, seeking not his own renown 
but the well-being of your Church, gave generously of his 
life and substance for the relief of the poor and the spread 
of the Gospel; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives 
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*


<The Nativity of Saint John the Baptist>  =June 24=

Almighty God, by whose providence your servant John the 
Baptist was wonderfully born, and sent to prepare the way of 
your Son our Savior by preaching repentance: Make us so to 
follow his teaching and holy life, that we may truly repent 
according to his preaching; and, following his example, 
constantly speak the truth, boldly rebuke vice, and patiently 
suffer for the truth's sake; through Jesus Christ your Son our 
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one 
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Advent*


<Saint Peter and Saint Paul>  =June 29=

Almighty God, whose blessed apostles Peter and Paul glorified 
you by their martyrdom: Grant that your Church, instructed by 
their teaching and example, and knit together in unity by your 
Spirit, may ever stand firm upon the one foundation, which 
is Jesus Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the 
unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Apostles*

<page 242>


<Independence Day>  =July 4=

Lord God Almighty, in whose Name the founders of this
country won liberty for themselves and for us, and lit the
torch of freedom for nations then unborn:  Grant that we and
all the people of this land may have grace to maintain our
liberties in righteousness and peace; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*The Collect "For the Nation," page 258, may be used instead.*

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<Saint Mary Magdalene>  =July 22=

Almighty God, whose blessed Son restored Mary Magdalene
to health of body and of mind, and called her to be a witness
of his resurrection:  Mercifully grant that by your grace we
may be healed from all our infirmities and know you in the
power of his unending life; who with you and the Holy Spirit
lives and reigns, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint James>  =July 25=

O gracious God, we remember before you today your servant
and apostle James, first among the Twelve to suffer martyrdom
for the Name of Jesus Christ; and we pray that you will pour
out upon the leaders of your Church that spirit of self-denying
service by which alone they may have true authority among
your people; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*

<page 243>


<The Transfiguration>  =August 6=

O God, who on the holy mount revealed to chosen witnesses
your well-beloved Son, wonderfully transfigured, in raiment
white and glistening:  Mercifully grant that we, being
delivered from the disquietude of this world, may by faith
behold the King in his beauty; who with you, O Father, and
you, O Holy Spirit, lives and reigns, one God, for ever and
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<Saint Mary the Virgin>  =August 15=

O God, you have taken to yourself the blessed Virgin Mary,
mother of your incarnate Son:  Grant that we, who have been
redeemed by his blood, may share with her the glory of your
eternal kingdom; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Incarnation*


<Saint Bartholomew>  =August 24=

Almighty and everlasting God, who gave to your apostle
Bartholomew grace and truly to believe and to preach your
Word:  Grant that your Church may love what he believed
and preach what he taught; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*

<page 244>


<Holy Cross Day>  =September 14=

Almighty God, whose Son our Savior Jesus Christ was lifted
high upon the cross that he might draw the whole world to
himself:  Mercifully grant that we, who glory in the mystery
of our redemption, may have grace to take up our cross and
follow him; who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Holy Week*


<Saint Matthew>  =September 21=

We thank you, heavenly Father, for the witness of your apostle
and evangelist Matthew to the Gospel of your Son our Savior;
and we pray that, after his example, we may with ready wills
and hearts obey the calling of our Lord to follow him;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<Saint Michael and All Angels>  =September 29=

Everlasting God, you have ordained and constituted in a
wonderful order the ministries of angels and mortals:
Mercifully grant that, as your holy angels always serve and
worship you in heaven, so by your appointment they may
help and defend us here on earth; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<Saint Luke>  =October 18=

Almighty God, who inspired your servant Luke the physician
to set forth in the Gospel the love and healing power of your
Son:  Graciously continue in your Church this love and power
<page 245>
to heal, to the praise and glory of your Name; through Jesus
Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the unity
of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint James of Jerusalem>  =October 23=

Grant, O God, that, following the example of your servant
James the Just, brother of our Lord, your Church may give
itself continually to prayer and to the reconciliation of all
who are at variance and enmity; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*


<Saint Simon and Saint Jude>  =October 28=

O God, we thank you for the glorious company of the apostles,
and especially on this day for Simon and Jude; and we pray
that, as they were faithful and zealous in their mission, so we
may with ardent devotion make known the love and mercy of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*


<All Saint's Day>  =November 1=

Almighty God, you have knit together your elect in one
communion and fellowship in the mystical body of your Son
Christ our Lord:  Give us grace so to follow your blessed saints
in all virtuous and godly living, that we may come to those
ineffable joys that you have prepared for those who truly love
you; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with you and the Holy
Spirit lives and reigns, one God, in glory everlasting.  =Amen.=

*Preface of All Saints*

<page 246> 


<Thanksgiving Day> 

Almighty and gracious Father, we give you thanks for the
fruits of the earth in their season and for the labors of those
who harvest them.  Make us, we pray, faithful stewards of
your great bounty, for the provision of our necessities and
the relief of all who are in need, to the glory of your Name;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*For the Prayers of the People, the Litany of Thanksgiving on page 836
may be used.* 

*Preface of Trinity Sunday* 


<The Common of Saints> 

*The festival of a saint is observed in accordance with the rules of
precedence set forth in the Calendar of the Church year.* 

*At the discretion of the Celebrant, and as appropriate, any of the
following Collects, with one of the corresponding sets of Psalms and
Lessons, may be used* 

*a) at the commemoration of a saint listed in the Calendar for which no
Proper is provided in this Book* 

*b) at the patronal festival or commemoration of a saint not listed in 
the Calendar.* 


<Of a Martyr> 

Almighty God, who gave your servant &N. boldness to
confess the Name of our Savior Jesus Christ before the rulers
<page 247>
of this world, and courage to die for this faith:  Grant that we
may always be ready to give a reason for the hope that is in
us, and to suffer gladly for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ;
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Almighty God, by whose grace and power your holy martyr
&N. triumphed over suffering and was faithful even to death:
Grant us, who now remember =him= in thanksgiving, to be so
faithful in our witness to you in this world, that we may
receive with =him= the crown of life; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

Almighty and everlasting God, who kindled the flame of your
love in the heart of your holy martyr &N.:  Grant to us, your
humble servants, a like faith and power of love, that we who
rejoice in =her= triumph may profit by =her= example; through
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Preface of a Saint* 


<Of a Missionary>

Almighty and everlasting God, we thank you for your
servant &N., whom you called to preach the Gospel to the
people of &3em. (*or* to the &3em. people).  Raise
up in this and every land evangelists and heralds of your
kingdom, that your Church may proclaim the unsearchable
riches of our Savior Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or the following*

<page 248>

Almighty God, whose will it is to be glorified in your saints,
and who raised up your servant &N. to be a light in the world;
Shine, we pray, in our hearts, that we also in our generation
may show forth your praise, who called us out of darkness
into your marvelous light; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost*


<Of a Pastor>

Heavenly Father, Shepherd of your people, we thank you for
your servant &N., who was faithful in the care and nurture of
your flock; and we pray that, following his example and the
teaching of his holy life, we may by your grace grow into the
stature of the fullness of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ;
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, our heavenly Father, who raised up your faithful
servant &N., to be a [bishop and] pastor in your Church and to
feed your flock:  Give abundantly to all pastors the gifts of
your Holy Spirit, that they may minister in your household as
true servants of Christ and stewards of your divine mysteries;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*


<Of a Theologian and Teacher>

O God, by your Holy Spirit you give to some the word of
wisdom, to others the world of knowledge, and to others the
word of faith:  We praise your Name for the gifts of grace
<page 248>
manifested in your servant &N., and we pray that your Church
may never be destitute of such gifts; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who with you and the Holy Spirit lives and reigns, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Almighty God, you gave to your servant &N. special gifts of
grace to understand and teach the truth as it is in Christ Jesus:
Grant that by this teaching we may know you, the one true
God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent; who lives and 
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint, or of Trinity Sunday*


<Of a Monastic>

O God, whose blessed Son became poor that we through his
poverty might be rich:  Deliver us from an inordinate love of
this world, that we, inspired by the devotion of your servant
&N., may serve you with singleness of heart, and attain to the
riches of the age to come; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who
lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, by whose grace your servant &N., kindled with the
flame of your love, became a burning and a shining light in
your Church:  Grant that we also may be aflame with the spirit
of love and discipline, and walk before you as children of light;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*

<page 250>

<Of a Saint>

Almighty God, you have surrounded us with a great cloud of
witnesses:  Grant that we, encouraged by the good example of
your servant &N., may persevere in running the race that is set
before us, until at last we may with =him= attain to your eternal
joy; through Jesus Christ, the pioneer and perfecter of our
faith, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, you have brought us near to an innumerable company
of angels, and to the spirits of just men made perfect:  Grant us
during our earthly pilgrimage to abide in their fellowship, and
in our heavenly country to become partakers of their joy;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Almighty God, by your Holy Spirit you have made us one with
your saints in heaven and on earth:  Grant that in our earthly
pilgrimage we may always be supported by this fellowship of
love and prayer, and know ourselves to be surrounded by their
witness to your power and mercy.  We ask this for the sake of
Jesus Christ, in whom all our intercessions are acceptable
through the Spirit, and who lives and reigns for ever and ever.
=Amen.=

*Preface of a Saint*

<page 251>

<Various Occasions>

*For optional use, when desire, subject to the rules set forth in the
Calendar of the Church Year.*


<1. Of the Holy Trinity>

Almighty God, you have revealed to your Church your eternal
Being of glorious majesty and perfect love as one God in
Trinity of Persons:  Give us grace to continue steadfast in the
confession of this faith, and constant in our worship of you,
Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; for you live and reign, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<2. Of the Holy Spirit>

Almighty and most merciful God, grant that by the indwelling
of your Holy Spirit we may be enlightened and strengthened
for your service; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now
and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost*


<3. Of the Holy Angels>

Everlasting God, you have ordained and constituted in a
wonderful order the ministries of angels and mortals:
Mercifully grant that, as your holy angels always serve and
worship you in heaven, so by your appointment they may
help and defend us here on earth; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*

<page 251>

<4. Of the Incarnation>

O God, who wonderfully created, and yet more wonderfully
restored, the dignity of human nature:  Grant that we may
share the divine life of him who humbled himself to share our
humanity, your Son Jesus Christ; who lives and reigns with you,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<5.  Of the Holy Eucharist>

*Especially suitable for Thursdays*

God our Father, whose Son our Lord Jesus Christ in a
wonderful Sacrament has left us a memorial of his passion:
Grant us so to venerate the sacred mysteries of his Body and
Blood, that we may ever perceive within ourselves the fruit
of his redemption; who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Epiphany*


<6. Of the Holy Cross>

*Especially suitable for Fridays*

Almighty God, whose beloved Son willingly endured the agony
and shame of the cross for our redemption:  Give us courage to
take up our cross and follow him; who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Holy Week*


<7. For all Baptized Christians>

*Especially suitable for Saturdays*

Grant, Lord God, to all who have been baptized into the
<page 253>
death and resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ, that, as we
have put away the old life of sin, so we may be renewed in the
spirit of our minds, and live in righteousness and true holiness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism*


<8. For the Departed>

Eternal Lord God, you hold all souls in life:  Give to your
whole Church in paradise and on earth your light and your
peace; and grant that we, following the good examples of
those who have served you here and are now at rest, may at
the last enter with them into your unending joy; through
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you, in the
unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Almighty God, we remember before you today your faithful
servant &N.; and we pray that, having opened to =him= the gates
of larger life, you will receive =him= more and more into your
joyful service, that, with all who have faithfully served you in
the past, =he= may share in the eternal victory of Jesus Christ
our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Any of the Collects appointed for use at the Burial of the Dead may be
used instead.*

*For the Prayers of the People, one of the forms appointed for the
Burial of the Dead may be used.*

*Preface to the Commemoration of the Dead*

*The postcommunion prayer on page 498 may be used.*

<page 254>

<9. Of the Reign of Christ>

Almighty and everlasting God, whose will it is to restore all
things in your well-beloved Son, the King of kings and Lord
of lords:  Mercifully grant that the peoples of the earth,
divided and enslaved by sin, may be freed and brought together
under his most gracious rule; who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Ascension, or of Baptism*


<10.  At Baptism>

Almighty God, by our baptism into the death and resurrection
of your Son Jesus Christ, you turn us from the old life of sin:
Grant that we, being reborn to new life in him, may live in
righteousness and holiness all our days; through Jesus Christ
our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit,
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism*


<11. At Confirmation>

Grant, Almighty God, that we, who have been redeemed
from the old life of sin by our baptism into the death and
resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ, may be renewed in
your Holy Spirit, and live in righteousness and true holiness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of Pentecost*


<12. On the Anniversary of the Dedication of a Church>

Almighty God, to whose glory we celebrate the dedication of
this house of prayer:  We give you thanks for the fellowship
<page 255>
of those who have worshiped in this place, and we pray that
all who seek you here may find you, and be filled with your
joy and peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now
and for ever.  =Amen.=

*The Litany of Thanksgiving for a Church, page 578, may be used for the
Prayers of the People.*

*Preface of the Dedication of a Church*


<13.  For a Church Convention>

Almighty and everlasting Father, you have given the Holy
Spirit to abide with us for ever:  Bless, we pray, with his grace
and presence, the bishops and other clergy and the laity
here (*or* now, *or* soon to be) assembled in your Name, that
your Church, being preserved in true faith and godly
discipline, may fulfill all the mind of him who loved it and
gave himself for it, your Son Jesus Christ our Savior; who
lives and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one
God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Pentecost, or of the Season*


<14.  For the Unity of the Church>

Almighty Father, whose blessed Son before his passion prayed
for his disciples that they might be one, as you and he are one:
Grant that your Church, being bound together in love and
obedience to you, may be united in one body by the one Spirit,
that the world may believe in him whom you have sent, your
Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in
the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of Trinity Sunday*

<page 256>


<15.  For the Ministry (Ember Days)>

*For use on the traditional days or at other times*

<I.  For those to be ordained>

Almighty God, the giver of all good gifts, in your divine
providence you have appointed various orders in your
Church:  Give your grace, we humbly pray, to all who are
[now] called to any office and ministry for your people; and so
fill them with the truth of your doctrine and clothe them with
holiness of life, that they may faithfully serve before you, to
the glory of your great Name and for the benefit of your holy
Church; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and
for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Apostles*

<II.  For the choice of fit persons for the ministry>

O God, you led your holy apostles to ordain ministers in every
place:  Grant that your Church, under the guidance of the Holy
Spirit, may choose suitable persons for the ministry of Word
and Sacrament, and may uphold them in their work for the
extension of your kingdom; through him who is the Shepherd
and Bishop of our souls, Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<III. For all Chistians in their vocation>

Almighty and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole
body of your faithful people is governed and sanctified:
Receive our supplications and prayers, which we offer before
<page 257>
you for all members of you holy Church, that in their vocation
and ministry they may truly and devoutly serve you; through
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who lives and reigns with
you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.
=Amen.=

*Preface of Baptism, or of the Season*


<16. For the Mission of the Church>

O God, you have made of one blood all the peoples of the
earth, and sent your blessed Son to preach peace to those
who are far off and to those who are near:  Grant that people
everywhere may seek after you and find you, bring the nations
into your fold, pour out your Spirit upon all flesh, and hasten
the coming of your kingdom; through Jesus Christ our Lord,
who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God,
now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God of all the nations of the earth:  Remember the
multitudes who have been created in your image but have not
known the redeeming work of our Savior Jesus Christ; and
grant that, by the prayers and labors of your holy Church,
they may be brought to know and worship you as you have
been revealed in your Son; who lives and reigns with you and
the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season, or of Pentecost*

<page 258>


<17. For the Nation>

Lord God Almighty, you have made all the peoples of the
earth for your glory, to serve you in freedom and in peace:
Give to the people of our country a zeal for justice and the
strength of forbearance, that we may use our liberty in
accordance with your gracious will; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one
God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*The Collect for Independence Day may be used instead.*

*Preface of Trinity Sunday*


<18. For Peace>

Almighty God, kindle, we pray, in every heart the true love of
peace, and guide with your wisdom those who take counsel
for the nations of the earth, that in tranquillity your dominion
may increase until the earth is filled with the knowledge of your
love; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<19. For Rogation Days>

*For use on the traditional days or at other times*

<I. For fruitful seasons>

Almighty God, Lord of heaven and earth:  We humbly pray
that your gracious providence may give and preserve to our
use the harvests of the land and of the seas, and may prosper
all who labor to gather them, that we, who are constantly
receiving good things from your hand, may always give you
<page 259>
thanks; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.
=Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<II. For Commerce and Industry>

Almighty God, whose Son Jesus Christ in his earthly life
shared our toil and hallowed our labor:  Be present with your
people where they work; make those who carry on the industries
and commerce of this land responsive to your will; and give
to us all a pride in what we do, and a just return for our labor;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for
ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<III. For stewardship of creation>

O merciful Creator, your hand is open wide to satisfy the
needs of every living creature:  Make us always thankful for
your loving providence; and grant that we, remembering the
account that we must one day give, may be faithful stewards
of your good gifts; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with
you and the Holy Spirit lives and reigns, one God, for ever
and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 260>


<20. For the Sick>

Heavenly Father, giver of life and health:  Comfort and
relieve your sick servants, and give your power of healing to
those who minister to their needs, that those (*or* &N., *or* &NN.)
for whom our prayers are offered may be strengthened in
=their= weakness and have confidence in you loving care;
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

*The postcommunion prayer on page 457 may be used.*


<21. For Social Justice>

Almighty God, who created us in your image:  Grant us
grace fearlessly to contend against evil and to make no peace
with oppression; and, that we may reverently use our freedom,
help us to employ it in the maintenance of justice in our
communities and among the nations, to the glory of your holy
Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with
you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<22. For Social Service>

Heavenly Father, whose blessed Son came not to be served
but to serve:  Bless all who, following in his steps, give
themselves to the service of others; that with wisdom,
patience, and courage, they may minister in his Name to the
suffering, the friendless, and the needy; for the love of him
who laid down his life for us, your Son our Savior Jesus
Christ, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 260>


<23. For Education>

Almighty God, the fountain of all wisdom:  Enlighten by your
Holy Spirit those who teach and those who learn, that,
rejoicing in the knowledge of your truth, they may worship
you and serve you from generation to generation; through
Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*


<24. For Vocation in Daily Work>

Almighty God our heavenly Father, you declare your glory
and show forth your handiwork in the heavens and in the
earth:  Deliver us in our various occupations from the service
of self alone, that we may do the work you give us to do in
truth and beauty and for the common good; for the sake of
him who came among us as one who serves, your Son Jesus
Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<25. For Labor Day>

Almighty God, you have so linked our lives one with another
that all we do affects, for good or ill, all other lives:  So guide
us in the work we do, that we may do it not for self alone, but
for the common good; and, as we seek a proper return for
our own labor, make us mindful of the rightful aspirations of
other workers, and arouse our concern for those who are out
of work; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever. 
=Amen.=

*Preface of the Season*

<page 262> 

<page 263> 

<Proper Liturgies
for Special Days>

<page 264> 



<Ash Wednesday>

*On this day, the Celebrant begins the liturgy with the Salutation and 
the Collect of the Day.* 

Let us pray. 

Almighty and everlasting God, you hate nothing you have 
made and forgive the sins of all who are penitent: Create and 
make in us new and contrite hearts, that we, worthily 
lamenting our sins and acknowledging our wickedness, 
may obtain of you, the God of all mercy, perfect remission 
and forgiveness; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives 
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Old Testament*    Joel 2:1-2, 12-17,  *or* Isaiah 58:1-12 

*Psalm*    103,  *or* 103:8-14 

*Epistle*    2 Corinthians 5:20b-6:10 

*Gospel*    Matthew 6:1-6, 16-21 


*After the Sermon, all stand, and the Celebrant or Minister appointed 
*invites the people to the observance of a holy Lent, saying* 

Dear People of God: The first Christians observed with great 
devotion the days of our Lord's passion and resurrection, and 
it became the custom of the Church to prepare for them by a 
<page 265>
season of penitence and fasting.  This is season of Lent 
provided a time in which converts to the faith were prepared for Holy
Baptism.  It was also a time when those who, because of 
notorious sins, had been separated from the body of the faithful 
were reconciled by penitence and forgiveness, and restored to 
the fellowship of the Church. Thereby, the whole congregation 
was put in mind of the message of pardon and absolution set 
forth in the Gospel of our Savior, and of the need which all 
Christians continually have to renew their repentance and faith. 

I invite you, therefore, in the name of the Church, to the 
observance of a holy Lent, by self-examination and repentance; 
by prayer, fasting, and self-denial; and by reading and 
meditating on God's holy Word.  And, to make a right beginning 
of repentance, and as a mark of our mortal nature, let us now 
kneel before the Lord, our maker and redeemer. 

*Silence is then kept for a time, all kneeling. 


[[*If ashes are to be imposed, the Celebrant says the following prayer* 

Almighty God, you have created us out of the dust of the 
earth:  Grant that these ashes may be to us a sign of our 
mortality and penitence, that we may remember that it is 
only by your gracious gift that we are given everlasting life; 
through Jesus Christ our Savior.   =Amen.= 

*The ashes are imposed with the following words* 

Remember that you are dust, and to dust you shall return.]] 


*The following Psalm is then sung or said* 

<page 266> 


<Psalm 51>  =Miserere mei, Deus= 

1  Have mercy on me, O God, according to your  
/loving-kindness; *
 in your great compassion blot out my offenses. 

2  Wash me through and through from my wickedness *
 and cleanse me from my sin. 

3  For I know my transgressions, *
 and my sin is ever before me. 

4  Against you only have I sinned *
and done what is evil in your sight. 

5  And so you are justified when you speak *
 and upright in your judgment 

6  Indeed, I have been wicked from my birth, *
 a sinner from my mother's womb. 

7  For behold, you look for truth deep within me, *
 and will make me understand wisdom secretly. 

8  Purge me from my sin, and I shall be pure;
wash me, and I shall be clean indeed. 

9  Make me hear of joy and gladness, *
 that the body you have broken may rejoice. 

10  Hide your face from my sins *
 and blot out all my iniquities. 

11  Create in me a clean heart, O God, *
 and renew a right spirit within me. 

12  Cast me not away from your presence *
 and take not your holy Spirit from me. 

13  Give me the joy of your saving help again *
 and sustain me with your bountiful Spirit. 

<page 267> 

14  I shall teach your ways to the wicked, *
and sinners shall return to you. 

15  Deliver me from death, O God, *
 and my tongue shall sing of your righteousness,
 O God of my salvation. 

16  Open my lips, O Lord, *
and my mouth shall proclaim your praise. 

17  Had you desired it, I would have offered sacrifice; *
but you take no delight in burnt-offerings. 

18  The sacrifice of God is a troubled spirit; *
 a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. 


<Litany of Penitence> 

*The Celebrant and People together, all kneeling* 

Most holy and merciful Father:
We confess to you and to one another,
and to the whole communion of saints
in heaven and on earth,
that we have sinned by our own fault
in thought, word, and deed;
by what we have done, and by what we have left undone. 


*The Celebrant continues* 

We have not loved you with our whole heart, and mind, and 
strength. We have not loved our neighbors as ourselves.  We 
have not forgiven others, as we have been forgiven.
=Have mercy on us, Lord.= 

We have been deaf to your call to serve, as Christ served us.  
We have not been true to the mind of Christ.  We have grieved 
your Holy Spirit.
=Have mercy on us, Lord.= 

<page 268> 

We confess to you, Lord, all our past unfaithfulness: the 
pride, hypocrisy, and impatience of our lives,
=We confess to you, Lord.= 

Our self-indulgent appetites and ways, and our exploitation 
of other people,
=We confess to you, Lord.= 

Our anger at our own frustration, and our envy of those 
more fortunate than ourselves,
=We confess to you, Lord.= 

Our intemperate love of worldly goods and comforts, and 
our dishonesty in daily life and work,
=We confess to you, Lord.= 

Our negligence in prayer and worship, and our failure to 
commend the faith that is in us,
=We confess to you, Lord.= 

Accept our repentance, Lord, for the wrongs we have done: 
for our blindness to human need and suffering, and our 
indifference to injustice and cruelty,
=Accept our repentance, Lord.= 

For all false judgments, for uncharitable thoughts toward our 
neighbors, and for our prejudice and contempt toward those 
who differ from us,
=Accept our repentance, Lord.= 

For our waste and pollution of your creation, and our lack of 
concern for those who come after us,
=Accept our repentance, Lord.= 

Restore us, good Lord, and let your anger depart from us; 
=Favorably hear us, for your mercy is great. 

Accomplish in us the work of your salvation,
=That we may show forth your glory in the world.= 

<page 269> 

By the cross and passion of your Son our Lord,
=Bring us with all your saints to the joy of his resurrection.= 


*The Bishop, if present, or the Priest, stands and, facing the people, 
says* 

Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who 
desires not the death of sinners, but rather that they may turn 
from their wickedness and live, has given power and 
commandment to his ministers to declare and pronounce to 
his people, being penitent, the absolution and remission of 
their sins.  He pardons and absolves all those who truly 
repent, and with sincere hearts believe his holy Gospel. 

Therefore we beseech him to grant us true repentance and his 
Holy Spirit, that those things may please him which we do on 
this day, and that the rest of our life hereafter may be pure 
and holy, so that at the last we may come to his eternal joy; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*A deacon or lay reader leading the service remains kneeling and 
substitutes the prayer for forgiveness appointed at Morning Prayer.* 

*The Peace is then exchanged.* 

*In the absence of a bishop or priest, all that precedes may be led by a 
deacon or lay reader.* 

*The Litany of Penitence may be used at other times, and may be preceded 
by an appropriate invitation and a penitential psalm.* 

*When Communion follows, the service continues with the Offertory.* 

*Preface of Lent* 

<page 270> 



<The Sunday of the Passion:
Palm Sunday>


<The Liturgy of the Palms> 

*When circumstances permit, the congregation may gather at a place
apart from the church, so that all may go into the church in 
procession.* 

*The branches of palm or of other trees or shrubs to be carried in the 
procession may be distributed to the people before the service, or after 
the prayer of blessing.* 


*The following or some other suitable anthem is sung or said, the people 
standing* 

Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord.
=Peace in heaven and glory in the highest.= 


*Celebrant*    Let us pray. 

Assist us mercifully with your help, O Lord God of our 
salvation, that we may enter with joy upon the contemplation 
of those mighty acts, whereby you have given us life and 
immortality; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*Here a Deacon or other person appointed reads one of the following* 

<page 271> 

Year A    Matthew 21:1-11 

Year B    Mark 11:1-11a 

Year C    Luke 19:29-40 


*The Celebrant then says the following blessing* 

*Celebrant*    The Lord be with you. 

*People*       And also with you. 

*Celebrant*    Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.  

*People*       It is right to give him thanks and praise. 

It is right to praise you, Almighty God, for the acts of love by 
which you have redeemed us through your Son Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  On this day he entered the holy city of Jerusalem in 
triumph, and was proclaimed as King of kings by those who 
spread their garments and branches of palm along his way.  
Let these branches be for us signs of his victory, and grant that 
we who bear them in his name may ever hail him as our King, 
and follow him in the way that leads to eternal life; who lives 
and reigns in glory with you and the Holy Spirit, now and for ever.  
=Amen.= 


*The following or some other suitable anthem may then be sung or said* 

Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
=Hosanna in the highest.= 


*The Procession* 

*Deacon*       Let us go forth in peace.  

*People*       In the name of Christ.  Amen. 

*During the procession, all hold branches in their hands, and 
appropriate hymns, psalms, or anthems are sung, such as the hymn "All 
glory, laid, and honor" and Psalm 118:19-29.* 

*At a suitable place, the procession may halt while the following or 
some other appropriate Collect is said* 

<page 272> 

Almighty God, whose most dear Son went not up to joy but 
first he suffered pain, and entered not into glory before he 
was crucified: Mercifully grant that we, walking in the way 
of the cross, may find it none other than the way of life and 
peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

*In the absence of a bishop or priest, the preceding service may be led 
by a deacon or lay reader.* 

*At services on this day other than the principal celebration, suitable 
portions of the preceding may be used.* 


<At the Eucharist> 

*When the Liturgy of the Palms immediately precedes the Eucharist, the 
celebration begins with the Salutation and Collect of the Day* 

Let us pray. 

Almighty and everliving God, in your tender love for the 
human race you sent your Son our Savior Jesus Christ to take 
upon him our nature, and to suffer death upon the cross, 
giving us the example of his great humility: Mercifully grant 
that we may walk in the way of his suffering, and also share 
in his resurrection; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives 
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Old Testament*   Isaiah 45:21-25,   *or*  Isaiah 52:13--53:12 

*Psalm*   22:1-21,   *or* 22:1-11 

*Epistle*    Philippians 2:5-11 


*The Passion Gospel is announced in the following manner* 

The Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ according to &mdash..  

*The customary reponses before and after the Gospel are omitted.* 

<page 273> 

*Year A*    Matthew 26:36-27:54(55-66)   *or* 27:1-54(55-66) 

*Year B*    Mark 14:32-15:39(40-47)   *or* 15:1-39(40-47)  

*Year C*    Luke 22:39-23:49(50-56)   *or* 23:1-49(50-56) 

*The Passion Gospel may be read or chanted by different persons. 
Specific roles may be assigned to different persons, the congregation 
taking the part of the crowd.* 

*The congregation may be seated for the first part of the Passion.  At 
the verse which mentions the arrival at Golgotha (Matthew 27:33, 
Mark 15:22, Luke 23:33) all stand.* 

*When the Liturgy of the Palms has preceded, the Nicene Creed and the 
Confession of Sin may be omitted at this service.* 

*Preface of Holy Week* 

<page 274> 



<Maundy Thursday> 

*The Eucharist begins in the usual manner, using the following Collect, 
Psalm, and Lessons* 

Almighty Father, whose dear Son, on the night before 
he suffered, instituted the Sacrament of his Body and Blood: 
Mercifully grant that we may receive it thankfully in 
remembrance of Jesus Christ our Lord, who in these holy 
mysteries gives us a pledge of eternal life; and who now lives 
and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever 
and ever.  =Amen.= 


*Old Testament*    Exodus 12:1-14a 

*Psalm*    78:14-20, 23-25 

*Epistle*    1 Corinthians 11:23-26(27-32) 

*Gospel*    John 13:1-15,   *or* Luke 22:14-30 


*When observed, the ceremony of the washing of feet appropriately 
follows the Gospel and homily.* 

*During the ceremony, the following or other words may be 
sung or said* 

The Lord Jesus, after he had supped with his disciples and 
had washed their feet, said to them, "Do you know what I, 
your Lord and Master, have done to you?  I have given you 
an example, that you should do as I have done." 

<page 275> 

=Peace is my last gift to you, my own peace I now leave with 
you; peace which the world cannot give, I give to you.= 

I give you a new commandment: Love one another as I have 
loved you. 

=Peace is my last gift to you, my own peace I now leave with 
you; peace which the world cannot give, I give to you.= 

By this shall the world know that you are my disciples:  That 
you have love for one another. 

*The service continues with the Prayers of the People.* 

*Where it is desired to administer Holy Communion from the reserved 
Sacrament on Good Friday, the Sacrament for that purpose is 
consecrated at this service.* 

*Preface of Holy Week* 

<page 276> 



<Good Friday> 

*On this day the ministers enter in silence.* 


*All then kneel for silent prayer, after which the Celebrant stands and 
begins the liturgy with the Collect of the Day.* 


*Immediately before the Collect, the Celebrant may say* 

Blessed be our God.

*People*  For ever and ever.  Amen. 


Let us pray. 

Almighty God, we pray you graciously to behold this your
family, for whom our Lord Jesus Christ was willing to be
betrayed, and given into the hands of sinners, and to suffer
death upon the cross; who now lives and reigns with you and
the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


*Old Testament*    Isaiah 52:13--53:12, *or* Genesis 22:1-18, *or* 
Wisdom 2:1, 12-24 

*Psalm*    22:1-11(12-21),   *or* 40:1-14,   *or* 69:1-23 

*Epistle*   Hebrews 10:1-25 


*The Passion Gospel is announced in the following manner* 

<page 277> 

The Passion of our Lord Jesus Christ according to John. 

*The customary responses before and after the Gospel are omitted.* 


John 18:1--19:37   *or* 19:1-37 


*The Passion Gospel may be read or chanted by lay persons.  Specific 
roles may be assigned to different persons, the congregation taking the 
part of the crowd.* 


*The congregation may be seated for the first part of the Passion.  At 
the verse which mentions the arrival at Golgotha (John 19:17) all 
stand.* 

*The Sermon follows.* 


*A hymn may then be sung.* 


<The Solemn Collects> 

*All standing, the Deacon, or other person appointed, says to the 
people* 

Dear People of God: Our heavenly Father sent his Son into 
the world, not to condemn the world, but that the world 
through him might be saved; that all who believe in him 
might be delivered from the power of sin and death, and 
become heirs with him of everlasting life. 

We pray, therefore, for people everywhere according to their 
needs. 


*In the biddings which follow, the indented portions may be adapted by
addition or omission, as appropriate, at the discretion of the 
Celebrant.  The people may be directed to stand or kneel.* 

*The biddings may be read by a Deacon or other person appointed.  The
Celebrant says the Collects.* 

<page 278> 

Let us pray for the holy Catholic Church of Christ 
throughout the world; 

  For its unity in witness and service 

  For all bishops and otehr ministers  and the people whom they serve 

  For N., our Bishop, and all the people of this diocese 

  For all Christians in this community 

  For those about to be baptized (particularly &mdash.) 

That God will confirm his Church in faith, increase it in love, 
and preserve it in peace. 

*Silence* 

Almighty and everlasting God, by whose Spirit the whole 
body of your faithful people is governed and sanctified: 
Receive our supplications and prayers which we offer before 
you for all member of your holy Church, that in their 
vocation and ministry they may truly and devoutly server you; 
through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.= 


Let us pray for all nations and peoples of the earth, and for 
those in authority among them; 

  For N., the President of the United States 

  For the Congress and the Supreme Court 

  For the Members and Representatives of the United Nations 

  For all who serve the common good 

That by God's help they may seek justice and truth, and live 
in peace and concord. 

*Silence* 

Almighty God, kindle, we pray, in every heart the true love of 
peace, and guide with your wisdom those who take counsel for 
the nations of the earth; that in tranquility your dominion may 
<page 279>
increase, until the earth is filled with the knowledge of your 
love; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


Let us pray for all who suffer and are afflicted in body or in mind; 

  For the hungry and the homeless, the destitute  and the oppressed 

  For the sick, the wounded, and the crippled 

  For those in loneliness, fear, and anguish 

  For those who face temptation, doubt, and despair 

  For the sorrowful and bereaved 

  For prisoners and captives, and those in mortal danger 

That God in his mercy will comfort and relieve them, and 
grant them the knowledge of his love, and stir up in us the 
will and patience to minister to their needs. 

*Silence* 

Gracious God, the comfort of all who sorrow, the strength of 
all who suffer: Let the cry of those in misery and need come 
to you, that they may find your mercy present with them in all 
their afflictions; and give us, we pray, the strength to serve 
them for the sake of him who suffered for us, your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


Let us pray for all who have not received the Gospel of Christ; 

  For those who have never heard the word of salvation 

  For those who have lost their faith 

  For those hardened by sin or indifference 

  For the contemptuous and the scornful 

  For those who are enemies of the cross of Christ and persecutors of 
his disciples 

  For those who in the name of Christ have persecuted others 

That God will open their hearts to the truth, and lead them to 
faith and obedience. 

<page 280> 

*Silence* 

Merciful God, Creater of all the peoples of the earth and 
lover of souls: Have compassion on all who do not know you 
as you are revealed in your Son Jesus Christ; let your Gospel 
be preached with grace and power to those who have not 
heard it; turn the hearts of those who resist it; and bring 
home to your fold those who have gone astray; that there 
may be one flock under one shepherd, Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.= 


Let us commit ourselves to God, and pray for the grace 
of a holy life, that, with all who have departed this world and 
have died in the peace of Christ, and those whose faith is 
known to God alone, we may be accounted worthy to enter 
into the fullness of the joy of our Lord, and receive the crown 
of life in the day of resurrection. 

*Silence* 

O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look 
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred 
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry 
out in tranquility the plan of salvation; let the whole 
world see and know that things which were cast down are being 
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made 
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection 
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus
Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*The service may be concluded here with the singing of a hymn or anthem, 
the Lord's Prayer, and the final prayer on page 282.* 

<page 281> 

*If desired, a wooden cross may now be brought into the church 
and placed in the sight of the people.* 

*Appropriate devotions may follow, which may include any or all of the
following, or other suitable anthems.  If the texts are recited rather 
than sung, the congregation reads the parts in italics.* 


<Anthem 1> 

We glory in your cross, O Lord,
=and praise and glorify your holy resurrection;
for by virtue of your cross
joy has come to the whole world.= 

May God be merciful to us and bless us,
show us the light of his countenance, and come to us. 

=Let your ways be known upon earth,
your saving health among all nations.= 

Let the peoples praise you, O God;
let all the peoples praise you. 

=We glory in your cross, O Lord,
and praise and glorify your holy resurrection;
for by virtue of your cross
joy has come to the whole world.= 


<Anthem 2> 

We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you,
=because by your holy cross you have redeemed the world.= 

If we have died with him, we shall also live with him;
if we endure, we shall also reign with him. 

<page 282> 

=We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you,
because by your holy cross you have redeemed the world.= 


<Anthem 3> 

O Savior of the world,
who by thy cross and precious blood hast redeemed us:
=Save us and help us, we humbly beseech thee, O Lord.= 


*The hymn "Sing, my tongue, the glorious battle," or some other hymn
extolling the glory of the cross, is then sung.* 


*The service may be concluded here with the Lord's Prayer and the final 
prayer below.* 

*In the absence of a bishop or priest, all that precedes may be led by a 
deacon or lay reader.* 


*In places where Holy Communion is to be administered from 
the reserved Sacrament, the following order is observed* 

  A Confession of Sin 

  The Lord's Prayer 

  The Communion 

*The service concludes with the following prayer.  No blessing or 
dismissal is added.* 

Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, we pray you to set 
your passion, cross, and death between your judgment and 
our souls, now and in the hour of our death.  Give mercy and 
grace to the living; pardon and rest to the dead; to your holy 
Church peace and concord; and to us sinners everlasting life 
and glory; for with the Father and the Holy Spirit you live 
and reign, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

<page 283> 



<Holy Saturday> 

*There is no celebration of the Eucharist on this day.* 

*When there is a Liturgy of the word, the Celebrant begins with the 
Collect of the Day* 

O God, Creator of heaven and earth: Grant that, as the 
crucified body of your dear Son was laid in the tomb and 
rested on this holy Sabbath, so we may await with him the 
coming of the third day, and rise with him to newness of 
life; who now lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 


*Old Testament*    Job 14:1-14 

*Psalm*    130,   *or* 31:1-5 

*Epistle*   1 Peter 4:1-8 

*Gospel*   Matthew 27:57-66,   *or* John 19:38-42 


*After the Gospel (and homily), in place of the Prayers of the People, 
the Anthem "In the midst of life" (page 484 or 492) is sung or said.* 

*The service then concludes with the Lord's Prayer and the Grace.* 

<page 283> 

<page 284> 


<Concerning the Vigil> 

*The Great Vigil, when observed, is the first service of Easter Day. It 
is celebrated at a convenient time between sunset on Holy Saturday and 
sunrise on Easter Morning.* 

*The service normally consists of four parts:* 

  1.  The Service of Light. 

  2.  The Service of Lessons. 

  3.  Christian Initiation, or the Renewal of Baptismal Vows. 

  4.  The Holy Eucharist with the administration of Easter Communion. 

*It is customary for all the ordained ministry present, together with 
lay readers, singers, and other persons, to take active parts in the 
service.* 

*The bishop, when present, is the chief celebrant, presides at Baptism 
and administers Communion, and normally preaches the sermon.* 

*The priests who are present share among them the reading of the 
Collects which follow each Lesson, and assist at Baptism and the 
Eucharist.  In the absence of a bishop, a priest presides at the 
service.* 

*It is the prerogative of a deacon to carry the Paschal Candle to its 
place, and to chant the Exsultet.  Deacons likewise assist at Baptism 
and the Eucharist according to their order.* 

*Lay persons should read the Lessons and the Epistle, and assist in 
other ways.  A lay person may be assigned to chant the Exsultet.  It is 
desirable that each Lesson be read by a different reader.* 

*In the absence of a bishop or priest, a deacon or lay reader may lead 
the first two parts of the service, the Renewal of Baptismal Vows, and 
the Ministry of the Word of the Vigil Eucharist, concluding with the 
Prayers of the People, the Lord's Prayer, and the Dismissal.* 

*A deacon may also, when the services of a priest cannot be obtained, 
and with the authorization of the bishop, officiate at public Baptism; 
and may administer Easter Communion from the Sacrament previously 
consecrated.* 

*When the Vigil is not celebrated, the Service of Light may take place 
at a convenient time before the Liturgy on Easter Day.* 

<page 285> 



<The Great Vigil of Easter> 


<The Lighting of the Paschal Candle> 

*In the darkness, fire is kindled; after which the Celebrant may address 
the people in these or similar words* 

Dear friends in Christ: On this most holy night, in which our 
Lord Jesus passed over from death to life, the Church invites 
her members, dispersed throughout the world, to gather in 
vigil and prayer.  For this is the Passover of the Lord, in which, 
by hearing his Word and celebrating his Sacraments, we share 
in his victory over death. 


*The Celebrant may say the following prayer* 

Let us pray. 

O God, through your Son you have bestowed upon your 
people the brightness of your light: Sanctify this new fire, and 
grant that in this Paschal feast we may so burn with heavenly 
desires, that with pure minds we may attain to the festival of 
everlasting light; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*The Paschal Candle is then lighted from the newly kindled fire, and the 
Deacon (the Celebrant if there is no deacon) bearing the Candle, leads 
the procession to the chancel, pausing three times and singing or 
saying* 

The light of Christ. 

*People* Thanks be to God. 

<page 286> 

*If candles have been distributed to members of the congregation, they 
are lighted from the Paschal Candle at this time.  Other candles and 
lamps in the church, except for those at the Altar, may also be 
lighted.* 

*The Paschal Candle placed in its stand.* 

*Then the Deacon, or other person appointed, standing near the Candle, 
sings or says the Exsultet, as follows (the indicated sections may be 
omitted)* 

Rejoice now, heavenly hosts and choirs of angels, 

and let your trumpets shout Salvation 

for the victory of our mighty King. 


Rejoice and sing now, all the round earth, 

bright with a glorious splendour, 

for darkness has been vanquished by our eternal King. 


Rejoice and be glad now, Mother Church, 

and let your holy courts, in radiant light, 

resound with the praises of your people. 


[[All you who stand near this marvelous and holy flame, 

pray with me to God the Almighty 

for the grace to sing the worthy praise of this great light;  

through Jesus Christ our Lord, 

who lives and reigns with him, 

in the unity of the Holy Spirit, 

one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=]] 


The Lord be with you. 

*Answer*  And also with you. 

*Deacon*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God. 

*Answer*  It is right to give him thanks and praise. 

*Deacon* 

It is truly right and good, always and everywhere, with our
<page 287>
whole heart and mind to praise you, the invisible, 
almighty, and eternal God, and your only-begotten Son, 
Jesus Christ our Lord; for he is the true Paschal Lamb, who 
at the feast of the Passover paid for us the debt of Adam's sin, 
and by his blood delivered your faithful people. 

This is the night, when you brought our fathers, the children 
of Israel, out of bondage in Egypt, and led them through the 
Red Sea on dry land. 

This is the night, when all who believe in Christ are delivered
from the gloom of sin, and are restored to grace and holiness
of life. 

This is the night, when Christ broke the bonds of death and hell, and 
rose victorious from the grave. 

[[How wonderful and beyond our knowing, O God, is your 
mercy and loving-kindness to us, that to redeem a slave, you 
gave a Son.]] 

[[How holy is this night, when wickedness is put to flight, and 
sin is washed away.  It restores innocence to the fallen, and joy 
to those who mourn.  It casts out pride and hatred, and brings 
peace and concord.]] 

[[How blessed is this night, when earth and heaven are joined 
and man is reconciled to God.]] 

Holy Father, accept our evening sacrifice, the offering of this 
candle in your honor.  May it shine continually to drive away 
all darkness. May Christ, the Morning Star who knows no 
setting, find it ever burning--he who gives his light to all 
creation, and who lives and reigns for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*It is customary that the Paschal Candle burn at all services from 
Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost.* 

<page 288> 


<The Liturgy of the Word> 

*The Celebrant may introduce the Scripture readings in these or similar 
words* 

Let us hear the record of God's saving deeds in history, how 
he saved his people in ages past; and let us pray that our God 
will bring each of us to the fullness of redemption. 

*At least two of the following Lessons are read, of which one is always 
the Lesson from Exodus.  After each Lesson, the Psalm or Canticle 
listed, or some other suitable psalm, canticle, or hymn may be sung.  A 
period of silence may be kept; and the Collect provided, or some other 
suitable Collect, may be said.* 


*The story of Creation* 

Genesis 1:1-2:2 

Psalm 33:1-11, *or* Psalm 36:5-10 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

O God, who wonderfully created, and yet more wonderfully 
restored, the dignity of human nature: Grant that we may 
share the divine life of him who humbled himself to share our 
humanity, your Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*The Flood* 

Genesis 7:1-5, 11-18; 8:8-18; 9:8-13 

Psalm 46 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

<page 289> 

Almighty God, you have placed in the skies the sign of your 
covenant with all living things: Grant that we, who are saved 
through water and the Spirit, may worthily offer to you our 
sacrifice of thanksgiving; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.= 


*Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac* 

Genesis 22:1-18 

Psalm 33:12-22, *or* Psalm 16 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

God and Father of all believers, for the glory of your Name 
multiply, by the grace of the Paschal sacrament, the number 
of your children; that your Church may rejoice to see fulfilled 
your promise to our father Abraham; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*Israel's deliverance at the Red Sea* 

Exodus 14:10-15:1 

Canticle 8, *The Song of Moses* 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

O God, whose wonderful deeds of old shine forth even to 
our own day, you once delivered by the power of your mighty 
arm your chosen people from slavery under Pharaoh, to be a 
sign for us of the salvation of all nations by the water of 
Baptism: Grant that all the peoples of the earth may be 
numbered among the offspring of Abraham, and rejoice in 
the inheritance of Israel; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.= 

<page 290> 


*God's Presence in a renewed Israel* 

Isaiah 4:2-6 

Psalm 122 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

O God, you led your ancient people by a pillar of cloud by day 
and a pillar of fire by night: Grant that we, who serve you 
now on earth, may come to the joy of that heavenly Jerusalem, 
where all tears are wiped away and where your saints for ever 
sing your praise; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*Salvation offered freely to all* 

Isaiah 55:1-11 

Canticle 9, *The First Song of Isaiah, or* Psalm 42:1-7 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

O God, you have created all things by the power of your 
Word, and you renew the earth by your Spirit: Give now the 
water of life to those who thirsd for you, that they may bring 
forth abundant fruit in your glorious kingdom; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*A new heart and a new spirit* 

Ezekiel 36:24-28 

Psalm 42:1-7, *or* Canticle 9, *The First Song of Isaiah* 

Let us pray.     *(Silence)* 

Almighty and everlasting God, who in the Paschal mystery 
established the new covenant of reconciliation: Grant that all 
<page 291>
who are reborn into the followship of Christ's Body may show 
forth in their lives what they profess by their faith; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*The valley of dry bones* 

Ezekiel 37:1-14 

Psalm 30, *or* Psalm 143 

Let us pray.    *(Silence)* 

Almighty God, by the Passover of your Son you have brought 
us out of sin into righteousness and out of death into life: 
Grant to those who are sealed by your Holy Spirit the will 
and the power to proclaim you to all the world; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 


*The gathering of God's people* 

Zephaniah 3:12-20 

Psalm 98, *or* Psalm 126 

Let us pray.  *(Silence)* 

O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look 
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred 
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry 
out in tranquillity the plan of salvation; let the whole world 
see and know that things which were cast down are being 
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made 
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection 
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.= 

<page 292> 

*A homily may be preached after any of the preceding Readings.* 

*Holy Baptism (beginning with the Presentation of the Candidates, 
page 305, and concluding with the reception of the newly baptized) may 
be administered here or after the Gospel.  Confirmation may also be 
administered.* 

*The Celebrant may first address the people in these or similar words, 
all standing* 

Through the Paschal mystery, dear friends, we are buried 
with Christ by Baptism into his death, and raised with him to 
newness of life.  I call upon you, therefore, now that our 
Lenten observance is ended, to renew the solemn promises 
and vows of Holy Baptism, by which we once renounced 
Satan and all his works, and promised to serve God faithfully 
in his holy Catholic Church. 


<The Renewal of Baptismal Vows> 


*Celebrant*  Do you reaffirm your renunciation of evil and 
renew your commitment to Jesus Christ? 

*People*  I do. 


*Celebrant*  Do you believe in God the Father? 

*People*  I believe in God, the Father almighty, creator of heaven and 
earth. 


<page 293> 

*Celebrant*  Do you believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God? 

*People*  I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord.
 He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit
/and born of the Virgin Mary.
 He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
/was crucified, died, and was buried.
 He descended to the dead.
 On the third day he rose again.
 He ascended into heaven,
/and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
 He will come again to judge the living and the dead. 


*Celebrant*  Do you believe in God the Holy Spirit? 

*People *  I believe in the Holy Spirit,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting. 


*Celebrant*  Will you continue in the apostles' teaching and
fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers? 

*People* I will, with God's help. 


*Celebrant*  Will you persevere in resisting evil, and, whenever you
 fall into sin, repent and return to the Lord 

*People* I will, with God's help. 


*Celebrant*  Will you proclaim by word and example the Good News of
 God in Christ? 

*People* I will, with God's help. 


*Celebrant*  Will you seek and serve Christ in all persons, loving
 your neighbor as yourself? 

*People* I will, with God's help. 

<page 294> 


*Celebrant*  Will you strive for justice and peace among all people,
 and respect the dignity of every human being? 

*People* I will, with God's help. 


*The Celebrant concludes the Renewal of Vows as follows* 

May Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who 
has given us a new birth by water and the Holy Spirit, and 
bestowed upon us the forgiveness of sins, keep us in eternal 
life by his grace, in Christ Jesus our Lord.  =Amen.= 


<At the Eucharist> 

*The candles at the Altar may now be lighted from the Paschal Candle.* 

*One of the following Canticles is then sung.  Immediately before the 
Canticle the Celebrant may say to the people* 

Alleluia.  Christ is risen. 

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia. 

*The Canticles* 

  Gloria in excelsis 

  Te Deum laudamus 

  Pascha nostrum 

*The Celebrant then says* 

The Lord be with you.  

*People*  And also with you. 

*Celebrant*  Let us pray. 

<page 295> 

*The Celebrant says one of the following Collects* 

Almighty God, who for our redemption gave your only-
begotten Son to the death of the cross, and by his glorious 
resurrection delivered us from the power of our enemy:  Grant 
us so to die daily to sin, that we may evermore live with him 
in the joy of his resurrection; through Jesus Christ your Son 
our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, 
one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

*or this* 

O God, who made this most holy night to shine with the 
glory of the Lord's resurrection: Stir up in your Church that 
Spirit of adoption which is given to us in Baptism, that we, 
being renewed both in body and mind, may worship you 
in sincerity and truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives 
and reigns with you, in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.= 


*Epistle*     Romans 6:3-11 

*"Alleluia" may be sung and repeated.* 

*Psalm 114, or some other suitable psalm or a hymn may be sung.* 

*Gospel*     Matthew 28:1-10 

*If a sermon or homily was not preached earlier, it follows here.* 

*The Nicene Creed is not used at this service* 

*Holy Baptism, Confirmation, or the Renewal of Baptismal Vows may 
take place here.* 

*The celebration continues with the Prayers of the People.* 

*Preface of Easter* 


<page 297>


<Holy Baptism> 

<page 298>


<Concerning the Service> 

*Holy Baptism is full initiation by water and the Holy Spirit into 
Christ's Body the Church.  The bond which God establishes in Baptism 
is indissoluble.* 

*Holy Baptism is appropriately administered within the Eucharist as the 
chief service on a Sunday or other feast.* 

*The bishop, when present, is the celebrant; and is expected to preach 
the Word and preside at Baptism and the Eucharist.  At Baptism, the 
bishop officiates at the Presentation and Examination of Candidates; 
says the Thanksgiving over the Water; [consecrates the Chrism;] reads 
the prayer, "Heavenly Father, we thank you that by water and the Holy 
Spirit;" and officiates at what follows.* 

*In the absence of a bishop, a priest is the celebrant and presides at 
the service.  If a priest uses Chrism in signing the newly baptized, it 
must have been previously consecrated by the bishop.* 

*Each candidate for Holy Baptism is to be sponsored by one or more 
baptized persons.* 

*Sponsors of adults and older children present their candidates and 
thereby signify their endorsement of the candidates and their intention 
to support them by prayer and example in their Christian life.  Sponsors 
of infants, commonly called godparents, present their candidates, make 
promises in their own names, and also take vows on behalf of their 
candidates.* 

*It is fitting that parents be included among the godparents of their 
own children.  Parents and godparents are to be instructed in the 
meaning of Baptism, in their duties to help the new Christians grow in 
the knowledge and love of God, and in their responsibilities as members 
of his Church.* 

*Additional Directions are on page 312.* 

<page 299>


<Holy Baptism> 

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


*The people standing, the Celebrant says* 

     Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

*People*     And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost* 

*Celebrant*     Alleluia.  Christ is risen. 

*People*     The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions* 

*Celebrant*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins. 

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*The Celebrant then continues* 

  There is one Body and one Spirit; 

*People*  There is one hope in God's call to us; 

*Celebrant*  One Lord, one Faith, one Baptism; 

*People*  One God and Father of all. 

*Celebrant*  The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Celebrant*  Let us pray. 

<page 300>


<The Collect of the Day> 

*People*  Amen. 

*At the principal service on a Sunday or other feast, the Collect and 
Lessons are properly those of the Day.  On other occasions, they are 
selected from "At Baptism."  (See Additional Directions, page 312.)*


<The Lessons> 

*The people sit.  One or two Lessons, as appointed, are read, 
the Reader first saying* 

A Reading (Lesson) from &3em.. 

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.* 

*After each Reading, the Reader may say* 

     The Word of the Lord. 

*People*  Thanks be to God. 

*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle). 

*Silence may follow.* 

*A Psalm, hymn, or anthem may follow each Reading.* 

*Then, all standing, the Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first 
saying* 

The Holy Gospel of Our Lord Jesus Christ 
according to &3em.. 

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ. 

*After the Gospel, the Reader says* 

     The Gospel of the Lord. 

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ. 

<page 301> 

<The Sermon> 

*Or the Sermon may be preached after the Peace.*



<Presentation and Examination
of the Candidates> 

*The Celebrant says* 

The Candidate(s) for Holy Baptism will now be presented.


<Adults and Older Children> 

*The candidates who are able to answer for themselves are presented 
individually by their Sponsors, as follows* 

*Sponsor*  I present &N. to receive the Sacrament of Baptism. 

*The Celebrant asks each candidate when presented* 

          Do you desire to be baptized? 

*Candidate*  I do.


<Infants and Younger Children> 

*Then the candidates who are unable to answer for themselves are 
presented individually by their Parents and Godparents, as follows* 

*Parents and Godparents* 

I present &N. to receive the Sacrament of Baptism. 

<page 302> 

*When all have been presented the Celebrant asks the parents and 
godparents* 

Will you be responsible for seeing that the child you present 
is brought up in the Christian faith and life? 

*Parents and Godparents* 

I will, with God's help. 

*Celebrant* 

Will you by your prayers and witness help this child to grow 
into the full stature of Christ? 

*Parents and Godparents* 

I will, with God's help. 

*The the Celebrant asks the following questions of the candidates who 
can speak for themselves, and of the parents and godparents who speak 
on behalf of the infants and younger children* 

*Question*  Do you renounce Satan and all the spiritual forces 
of wickedness that rebel against God? 

*Answer*  I renounce them. 

*Question*  Do you renounce the evil powers of this world 
which corrupt and destroy the creatures of God? 

*Answer*  I renounce them. 

*Question*  Do you renounce all sinful desires that draw you 
from the love of God? 

*Answer*  I renounce them. 

*Question*  Do you turn to Jesus Christ and accept him as your Savior? 

*Answer*  I do. 

*Question*  Do you put your whole trust in his grace and love? 

*Answer*  I do. 

<page 303> 

*Question*  Do you promise to follow and obey him as your 
Lord? 

*Answer*  I do. 

[[*When there are others to be presented, the Bishop says* 

The other Candidate(s) will now be presented. 

*Presenters*  I present =these persons= for Confirmation. 

*or*  I present =these persons= to be received into this
Communion. 

*or*  I present =these persons= who =desire= to reaffirm
=their= baptismal vows. 

*The Bishop asks the candidates* 

Do you reaffirm your renunciation of evil? 

*Candidate*  I do. 

*Bishop* 

Do you renew your commitment to Jesus Christ? 

*Candidate* 

I do, and with God's grace I will follow him as my Savior 
and Lord.]] 

*After all have been presented, the Celebrant addresses the 
congregation, saying* 

Will you who witness these vows do all in your 
power to support =these persons= in =their= life in Christ? 

*People*  We will. 

*The Celebrant then says these or similar words* 

Let us join with =those= who are committing =themselves= to Christ 
and renew our own baptismal covenant. 

<page 304>


<The Baptismal Covenant> 

*Celebrant*  Do you believe in God the Father? 

*People*  I believe in God, the Father almighty, creator of heaven and 
earth. 

*Celebrant*  Do you believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God? 

*People*  I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord. 

  He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit  
/and born of the Virgin Mary. 
  He suffered under Pontius Pilate, 
/was crucified, died, and was buried. 
  He descended to the dead. 
  On the third day he rose again. 
  He ascended into heaven, 
/and is seated at the right hand of the Father.  
  He will come again to judge the living and the dead. 

*Celebrant*  Do you believe in God the Holy Spirit? 

*People*  I believe in the Holy Spirit, 
  the holy catholic Church,  
  the communion of saints,  
  the forgiveness of sins,  
  the resurrection of the body, 
  and the life everlasting. 

*Celebrant*  Will you continue in the apostles' teaching and
fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers? 

*People*  I will, with God's help. 

*Celebrant*  Will you persevere in resisting evil, and, whenever you 
fall into sin, repent and return to the Lord. 

*People*  I will, with God's help. 

<page 305> 

*Celebrant*  Will you proclaim by word and example the Good 
News of God in Christ? 

*People*  I will, with God's help. 

*Celebrant*  Will you seek and serve Christ in all persons, loving
your neighbor as yourself? 

*People*  I will, with God's help. 

*Celebrant*  Will you strive for justice and peace among all 
people, and respect the dignity of every human 
being? 

*People*  I will, with God's help. 

<Prayers for the Candidates> 

*The Celebrant then says to the congregation* 

Let us now pray for =these persons= who are to receive the 
Sacrament of new birth [and for those (this person) who =have= renewed 
=their= commitment to Christ.] 

*A Person appointed leads tho following petitions* 

*Leader*  Deliver =them,= O Lord, from the way of sin and death. 

*People* Lord, hear our prayer. 

*Leader*  Open =their hearts= to your grace and truth. 

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

*Leader*  Fill =them= with your holy and life-giving Spirit. 

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

*Leader*  Keep =them= in the faith and communion of your holy
Church.  

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

*Leader*  Teach =them= to love others in the power of the Spirit. 

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

<page 306> 

*Leader*  Send =them= into the world in witness to your love. 

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

*Leader*  Bring =them= to the fullness of your peace and glory. 

*People*  Lord, hear our prayer. 

*The Celebrant says* 

Grant, O Lord, that all who are baptized into the death 
of Jesus Christ your Son may live in the power of his 
resurrection and look for him to come again in glory; who 
lives and reigns now and forever. =Amen.= 

<Thanksgiving over the Water> 

*The Celebrant blosses the water, first saying* 

     The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.  

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise. 

*Celebrant* 

We thank you, Almighty God, for the gift of water.  
Over it the Holy Spirit moved in the beginning of creation.  
Through it you led the children of Israel out of their bondage 
in Egypt into the land of promise.  In it your Son Jesus 
received the baptism of John and was anointed by the Holy 
Spirit as the Messiah, the Christ, to lead us, throught his death 
and resurrection, from the bondage of sin into everlasting life. 

We thank you, Father, for the water of Baptism.  In it we are 
buried with Christ in his death.  By it we share in his 
resurrection. Through it we are reborn by the Holy Spirit.  
Therefore in joyful obedience to your Son, we bring into his 
<page 307>
fellowship those who come to him in faith, baptizing them in 
the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. 

*At the following words, the Celebrant touches the water* 

Now sanctify this water, we pray you, by the power of your 
Holy Spirit, that those who here are cleansed from sin and 
born again may continue for ever in the risen life of Jesus 
Christ our Savior. 

To him, to you, and to the Holy Spirit, be all honor and 
glory, now and for ever.  =Amen.= 

[[<Consecration of the Chrism> 

*The Bishop may then consecrate oil of Chrism, placing a hand on 
the  vessel of oil, and saying* 

Eternal Father, whose blessed Son was anointed by the 
Holy Spirit to  be the Savior and servant of all, we pray you 
to consecrate this oil, that those who are sealed with it may 
share in the royal priesthood of Jesus Christ; who lives and 
reigns with you and the  Holy Spirit, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Baptism> 

*Each candidate is presented by name to the Celebrant, or to an 
assisting 
priest or deacon, who then immerses, or pours water upon, the 
candidate, saying* 

&N., I baptize you in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, 
and of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.= 

<page 308> 

*When this action has been completed for all candidates, the Bishop or 
Priest, at a place in full sight of the congregation, prays over them, 
saying* 

Let us pray. 

Heavenly Father, we thank you that by water and the Holy 
Spirit you have bestowed upon =these= your servants the 
forgiveness of sin, and have raised =them= to the new life of 
grace.  Sustain =them,= O Lord, in your Holy Spirit.  Give =them= 
an inquiring and discerning heart, the courage to will and to 
persevere, a spirit to know and to love you, and the gift of joy 
and wonder in all your works.  =Amen.= 

*Then the Bishop or Priest places a hand on the person's head, marking 
on the forehead the sign of the cross [using Chrism if desired] and 
saying to each one* 

&N., you are sealed by the Holy Spirit in Baptism and marked 
as Christ's own for ever.  =Amen.= 

*Or this action may be done immediately after the administration of the 
water and before the preceding prayer.* 

*When all have been baptized, the Celebrant says* 

Let us welcome the newly baptized. 

*Celebrant and People* 

We receive you into the household of God.  Confess the faith 
of Christ crucified, proclaim his resurrection, and share with 
us in his eternal priesthood. 

*If Confirmation, Reception, or the Reaffirmation of Baptismal Vows is 
not to follow, the Peace is now exchanged* 

*Celebrant*  The peace of the Lord be always with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

<page 309> 

<At Confirmation, Reception, or Reaffirmation> 

*The Bishop says to the congregation* 

Let us now pray for =these persons= who have renewed 
=their= commitment to Christ. 

*Silence may be kept.* 

*Then the Bishop says* 

Almighty God, we thank you that by the death and 
resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ you have overcome sin 
and brought us to yourself, and that by the sealing of your 
Holy Spirit you have bound us to your service.  Renew in 
=these= your =servants= the covenant you made with =them= at =their= 
Baptism.  Send =them= forth in the power of the Spirit to 
perform the service you set before =them;= through Jesus Christ 
your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=



<For Confirmation> 

*The Bishop lays hands upon each one and says* 

Strengthen, O Lord, your servant &N. with your Holy Spirit; 
empower =him= for your service; and sustain =him= all the days 
of =his= life. Amen. 

*or this* 

Defend, O Lord, your servant &N. with your heavenly grace, 
that =he= may continue yours for ever, and daily increase in 
your Holy Spirit more and more, until =he= comes to your 
everlasting kingdom.  =Amen.= 

<page 310> 

<For Reception> 

&N., we recognize you as a member of the one holy catholic 
and apostolic Church, and we receive you into the fellowship 
of this Communion.  God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, 
bless, preserve, and keep you.  =Amen.=


<For Reaffirmation> 

&N., may the Holy Spirit, who has begun a good work in you, 
direct and uphold you in the service of Christ and his 
kingdom.  =Amen.= 

*Then the Bishop says* 

Almighty and everliving God, let your fatherly hand ever 
be over =these= your =servants;= let your Holy Spirit ever be with 
=them;= and so lead =them= in the knowledge and obedience of 
your Word, that =they= may serve you in this life, and dwell 
with you in the life to come; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
Amen. 

*The Peace is then exchanged* 

*Bishop*  The peace of the Lord be always with you. 

*People*  And also with you. 

<At the Eucharist> 

*The service then continues with the Prayers of the People or the 
Offertory of the Eucharist, at which the Bishop, when present, should be 
the princpal Celebrant.* 

*Except on Principal Feasts, the Proper Preface of Baptism may be used.* 

<page 311> 

<Alternative Ending> 

*If there is no celebration of the Eucharist, the service continues with 
the Lord's Prayer* 

&LordsPrayer. 

*The Celebrant then says* 

All praise and thanks to you, most merciful Father, for 
adopting us as your own children, for incorporating us into 
your holy Church, and for making us worthy to share in the 
inheritance of the saints in light; through Jesus Christ your 
Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy 
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.= 

*Alms may be received and presented, and other prayers may be added, 
concluding with this prayer* 

Almighty God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, from 
whom every family in heaven and earth is named, grant you 
to be strengthened with might by his Holy Spirit, that, Christ 
dwelling in your hearts by faith, you may be filled with all the 
fullness of God.  =Amen.= 

<page 312> 

<Additional Directions> 

*Holy Baptism is especially appropriate at the Easter Vigil, on the 
Day of Pentecost, on All Saints' Day or the Sunday after All Saints' 
Day, and on the Feast of the Baptism of our Lord (the First Sunday 
after the Epiphany).  It is recommended that, as far as possible, 
Baptisms be reserved for these occasions or when a bishop is 
present.* 

*If on any one of the above-named days the ministry of a bishop or 
priest cannot be obtained, the bishop may specially authorize a 
deacon to preside.  In that case, the deacon omits the prayer over 
the candidates, page 308, and the formula and action which follow.* 

*These omitted portions of the rite may be administered on some 
subsequent occasion of public baptism at which a bishop or priest 
presides.* 

*If on the four days listed above there are no candidates for Baptism, 
the Renewal of Baptismal vows, page 292, may take the place of the 
Nicene Creed at the Eucharist.* 

*If desired, the hymn Gloria in excelsis may be sung immediately after
the opening versicles and before the salutation "The Lord be with you."* 

*When a bishop is present, or on other occasions for sufficient reason, 
the Collect (page 203 or 254) and one or more of the Lessons provided 
for use at Baptism (page 928) may be substituted for the Proper of the 
Day.* 

*Lay persons may act as readers, and it is appropriate for sponsors to 
be assigned this function.  The petitions (page 303) map also be led by 
one of the sponsors.* 

*The Nicene Creed is not used at this service.* 

*If the Presentation of the Candidates does not take place at the font, 
then before or during the petitions (page 305), the ministers, 
candidates, and sponsors go to the font for the Thanksgiving over the 
Water.* 

*If the movement to the font is a formal procession, a suitable psalm, 
such as Psalm 42, or a hymn or anthem, may be sung.* 

<page 313> 

*Where practicable, the font is to be filled with clean water 
immediately before the Thanksgiving over the Water.* 

*At the Thanksgiving over the Water, and at the administration of 
Baptism, the celebrant, whenever possible, should face the people across 
the font, and the sponsors should be so grouped that the people may have 
a clear view of the action.* 

*After the Baptism, a candle (which may be lifted from the Paschal 
Candle) may be given to each of the newly baptized or to a godparent.* 

*It may be found desirable to return to the front of the church for the 
prayer, "Heavenly Father, we thank you that by water and the Holy 
Spirit," and the ceremonies that follow it.  A suitable psalm, such as 
Psalm 23, or a hymn or anthem, may be sung during the procession.* 

*The oblations of bread and wine at the baptismal Eucharist may be 
presented by the newly baptized or their godparents.*


<Conditional Baptism> 

*If there is reasonable doubt that a person has been baptized with 
water, "In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit" (which are the essential parts of Baptism), the person is 
baptized in the usual manner, but this form of words is used* 

If you are not already baptized, &N., I baptize you in the 
Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.


<Emergency Baptism> 

*In case of emergency, any baptized person may administer Baptism 
according to the following form.*

*Using the given name of the one baptized (if known), pour water on 
him or her, saying* 

I baptize you in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
of the Holy Spirit. 

<page 314> 

The Lord's Prayer is then said.* 

*Other prayers, such as the following, may be added 

Heavenly Father, we thank you that by water and the Holy 
Spirit you have bestowed on upon this your servant the 
forgiveness of sin and have raised =him= to the new life of 
grace.  Strengthen =him,= O Lord, with your presence, enfold 
=him= in the arms of your mercy, and keep =him= safe forever. 

*The person who administers emergency Baptism should inform the priest 
of the appropriate parish, so that the fact can be properly recorded.* 

*If the baptized person recovers, the Baptism should be recognized 
at a public celebration of the Sacrament with a bishop or priest 
presiding, and the person baptized under emergency conditions, 
together with the sponsors or godparents, taking part in everything 
except the administration of the water.* 

<page 315>


<The Holy Eucharist>

<The Liturgy for the
Proclamation of the Word of God and
Celebration of the Holy Communion>

<page 316>

<An Exhortation>

*This Exhortation may be used, in whole or in part, either during the 
Liturgy or at other times.  In the absence of a deacon or priest, this 
Exhortation may be read by a lay person.  The people stand or sit.*

Beloved in the Lord: Our Savior Christ, on the night before 
he suffered, instituted the Sacrament of his Body and 
Blood as a sign and pledge of his love, for the continual 
remembrance of the sacrifice of his death, and for a spiritual 
sharing in his risen life.  For in these holy Mysteries we are 
made one with Christ, and Christ with us; we are made one 
body in him, and members one of another.

Having in mind, therefore, his great love for us, and in 
obedience to his command, his Church renders to Almighty 
God our heavenly Father never-ending thanks for the 
creation of the world, for his continual providence over us, 
for his love for all mankind, and for the redemption of the 
world by our Savior Christ, who took upon himsely our flesh, 
and humbled himself even to death on the cross, that he 
might make us the children of God by the power of the Holy 
Spirit, and exalt us to everlasting life.

But if we are to share rightly in the celebration of those holy 
Mysteries, and be nourished by that spritual Food, we must remember
the dignity of that holy Sacrament.  I therefore call 
upon you to consider how Saint Paul exhorts all persons to 
prepare themselves carefully before eating of that Bread and 
drinking of that Cup.

For, as the benefit is great, if with penitent hearts and living 
faith we receive the holy Sacrament, so is the danger great, if 
we receive it improperly, not recognizing the Lord's Body.  
Judge yourselves, therefore, lest you me judged by the Lord.

<page 317>

Examine your lives and conduct by the rule of God's 
commandments, that you may perceive wherein you have 
offended in what you have done or left undone, whether in 
thought, word, or deed.  And acknowledge your sins before 
Almighty God, with full purpose of amendment of life, being 
ready to make restitution for all injuries and wrongs done by 
you to others; and also being ready to forgive those who have 
offended you, in order that you yourselves may be forgiven.  
And then, being reconciled with one another, come to the 
banquet of that most heavenly Food.

And if, in your preparation, you need help and counsel, then 
go and open your grief to a discreet and understanding priest, 
and confess your sins, that you may receive the benefit of 
absolution, and spiritual counsel and advice; to the removal 
of scruple and doubt, the assurance of pardon, and the 
strengthening of your faith.

To Christ our Lord who loves us, and washed us in his own 
blood, and made us a kingdom of priests to serve his God 
and Father, to him be glory in the Church evermore.  Through 
him let us offer continually the sacrifice of praise, which is 
our bounden duty and service, and, with faith in him, come 
boldly before the throne of grace [and humbly confess our 
sins to Almighty God].


<The Decalogue:  Traditional>

God spake these words, and said:
I am the Lord thy God who brought thee out of the land of
Egypt, out of the house of bondage.  Thou shalt have none
other gods but me.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

<page 318>

Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven image, nor the
likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth
beneath, or in the water under the earth; thou shalt not bow
down to them, nor worship them.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vain.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath day.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Honor thy father and thy mother.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thou shalt do no murder.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thou shalt not commit adultry.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thou shalt not steal.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thous shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

Thou shalt not covet.
=Lord have mercy upon us,
and incline our hearts to keep this law.=

<page 319>



<A Penitential Order: Rite One>

*For use at the beginning of the Liturgy, or as a separate service.*

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


*The people standing, the Celebrant says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Celebrant*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Celebrant*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*When used as a separate service, the Exhortation, page 316, may be 
read, or a homily preached.*

*The Decalogue, page 317, may be said, the people kneeling.*

*The Celebrant may read one of the following sentences*

Hear what our Lord Jesus saith:

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind.  This is the first and great
commandment.  And the second is like unto it:  Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself.  On these two commandments
hang all the Law and the Prophets.  =Matthew 22:37-40=

<page 320>

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the 
truth is not in us; but if we confess our sins, God is faithful 
and just to forgive our sins, and cleanse us from all 
unrighteousness.  =1 John 1:8,9=

Seeing that we have a great heigh priest, that is passed into the
heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us come boldly unto the
throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to
help in time of need.  =Hebrews 4:14,16=


*The Deacon or Celebrant then says*

Let us confess our sins against God and our neighbor.

*Silence may be kept.*


*Minister and People*

Most merciful God,we confess that we have sinned against thee
in thought, word, and deed, 
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved thee with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. 
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent. 
For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in thy will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen.

*or this*

Almighty and most merciful Father,
we have erred and strayed from thy ways like lost sheep,
we have followed too much the devices and desires of our
/own hearts,
<page 321>
we have offended against thy holy laws,
we have left undone those things which we ought to
/have done,
and we have done those things which we ought not to
/have done.
But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us,
spare thou those who confess their faults,
restore thou those who are penitent,
according to thy promises declared unto mankind
in Christ Jesus our Lord;
and grand, O most merciful Father, for his sake,
that we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life,
to the glory of thy holy Name.  Amen.


*The Bishop when present, or the Priest, stands and says*

The Almighty and merciful Lord grant you absolution and
remission of all your sins, true repentance, amendment of
life, and the grace and consolation of his Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form substitutes "us" for 
"you" and "our" for "your."*

*When this Order is used at the beginning of the Liturgy, the service 
continues with the Kyrie eleison, the Trisagion, or the Gloria in 
excelsis.*

*When used separately, it concludes with suitable prayers, and the Grace 
or a blessing.*

<page 322>


<Concerning the Celebration>

*It is the bishop's prerogative, when present, to be the principal 
celebrant at the Lord's Table, and to preach the Gospel.*

*At all celebrations of the Liturgy, it is fitting that the principal 
celebrant, whether bishop or priest, be assisted by other priests, and 
by deacons and lay persons.*

*It is appropriate that other priests present stand with the celebrant 
at the Altar, and join in the consecration of the gifts, in breaking the 
Bread, and in distributing Communion.*

*A deacon should read the Gospel and may lead the Prayers of the People.  
Deacons should also serve at the Lord's Table, preparing and placing on 
it the offerings of bread and wine, and assisting in the ministration of 
the sacrament to the people.  In the absence of a deacon, these duties 
may be performed by an assisting priest.*

*Lay persons appointed by the celebrant should normally be assigned the 
reading of the Lessons which precede the Gospel, and may lead the 
Prayers of the People.*

*Morning or Evening Prayer may be used in place of all that precedes the 
Peace and the Offertory, provided that a lesson from the Gospel is 
always included, and that the intercessions conform to the directions 
given for the Prayers of the People.*

*Additional Directions are on page 406.*

<page 323>



<The Holy Eucharist:  Rite One>


<The Word of God>

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


*The people standing, the Celebrant may say*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.
=Amen.=


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Celebrant*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Celebrant*  Bless the Lord who forgiveth all our sins;

*People*  His mercy endureth for ever.


*The Celebrant says*

Almighty God, unto whom all hearts are open, all desires 
known, and from whom no secrets are hid:  Cleanse the 
thoughts of our hearts by the inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, 
that we may perfectly love thee, and worthily magnify thy 
holy Name; through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 324>

*Then the Ten Commandments may be said, or the following*

Hear what our Lord Jesus Christ saith:

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with 
all thy soul, and with all thy mind.  This is the first and great 
commandment.  And the second is like unto it:  Thou shalt 
love thy neighbor as thyself.  On these two commandments 
hang all the Law and the Prophets.


*Here is sung or said*

Lord, have mercy upon us.
=Christ, have mercy upon us.=
Lordhave mercy upon us.

*or*

Kyrie eleison.
=Christe eleison.=
Kyrie eleison.

*or this*

Holy God,
Holy and Mighty,
Holy Immortal One,
=Have mercy upon us.=


*When appointed, the following hymn or some other song of praise is sung 
or said, in addition to, or in place of, the preceding, all standing*

Glory be to God on high,
  and on earth peace, good will towards men.

We praise thee, we bless the,
  we worship thee,
  we glorify thee,
we give thanks to thee for thy great glory,
O Lord God, heavenly King, God the Father Almighty.

O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ;
O Lord God, Lamb of God, Son of the Father,
  that takest away the sins of the world,
  have mercy upon us.
<page 325>
Thou that takes away the sins of the world,
  receive our prayer.
Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father, have mercy upon 
us.

For thou only art holy;
thou only art the Lord;
thou only, O Christ,
  with the Holy Ghost,
  art most high in the glory of God the Father.  =Amen.=


<The Collect of the Day>


*The Celebrant says to the people*

The Lord be with you. 

*People*  And with thy spirit.

*Celebrant*  Let us pray.


*The Celebrant says the Collect.*

*People*  =Amen.=


<The Lessons>

*The people sit.  One or two Lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader
first saying*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash..

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*


*After each Reading, the Reader may say

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*or the Reader may say*  Here endeth the Reading (Epistle).


*Silence may follow*


*A Psalm, hymn, or anthem may follow each Reading.*


*Then, all standing, the Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first 
saying The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to &mdash.*

*People*  Glory be to thee, O Lord.


*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise be to thee, O Christ.


<The Sermon>

*On Sundays and other Major Feasts there follows, all standing The 
Nicene Creed*

We believe in one God,
  the Father, the Almighty,
  maker of heaven and earth,
  of all that is, seen and unseen.

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ,
  the only Son of God,
  eternally begotten of the Father,
  God from God, Light from Light,
  true God from true God,
  begotten, not made,
  of one Being with the Father.
  Through him all things were made.
  For us and for our salvation
      he came down from heaven:
<page 326>
  by the power of the Holy Spirit
he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
  and was made man.
For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
  he suffered death and was buried.
  On the third day he rose again
    in accordance with the Scriptures;
  he ascended into heavan
and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
    and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, 
  who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
  With the Father and the Son he is worshiped and glorified.
  He has spoken through the Prophets.
  We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
  We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
  We look for the resurrection of the dead,
    and the life of the world to come.  Amen.

*or this*

I believe in one God,
    the Father Almighty,
    maker of heaven and earth,
and of all things visible and invisible;

And in one Lord Jesus Christ,
    the only-begotten Son of God,
begotten of his Father before all worlds,
    God of God, Light of Light,
    very God of very God,
    begotten, not made,
<page 328>
    being of one substance with the Father;
    by whom all things were made;
    who for us men and for our salvation
        came down from heaven,
and was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin Mary,
        and was made man;
    and was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate;
    he suffered and was buried;
and the third day he rose again according to the Scriptures,
    and ascended into heaven,
    and sitteth on the right hand of the Father;
    and he shall come again, with glory,
        to judge both the quick and the dead;
    whose kingdom shall have no end.
And I believe in the Holy Ghost the Lord, and Giver of Life, who 
proceedeth from the Father and the Son;
    who with the Father and the Son together is worshiped
        and glorified;
    who spake by the Prophets.
    And I believe one holy Catholic and Apostolic Church;
I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins;
    and I look for the resurrection of the dead,
        and the life of the world to come.  =Amen.=


<The Prayers of the People>

*Intercession is offered according to the following form, or in 
accordance with the directions on page 383.*


*The Deacon or other person appointed says*

Let us pray for the whole state of Christ's Church and the world.


*After each paragraph of this prayer, the People may make an appropriate
response, as directed.*

<page 329>

Almighty and everliving God, who in thy holy Word hast 
taught us to make prayers, and supplications, and to give 
thanks for all men:  Receive these our prayers which we offer 
unto thy divine Magesty, beseeching thee to inspire 
continually the Universal Church with the spirit of truth, 
unity, and concord; and grant that all those who do confess 
thy holy Name may agree in the truth of thy holy Word, and 
live in unity and godly love.

Give grace, O heavenly Father, to all bishops and other 
ministers [especially &mdash.], that they may, both by 
their life and doctrine, set forth thy true and lively Word, 
and rightly and duly administer thy holy Sacraments.

And to all thy people give thy heavenly grace, and especially 
to this congregation here present; that, with meek heart and 
due reverence, they may hear and receive thy holy Word, 
truly serving thee in holiness and righteousness all the days 
of their life.

We beseech thee also so to rule the hearts of those who bear 
the authority of government in this and every land [especially 
&mdash.], that they may be led to wise decisions and right 
actions for the welfare and peace of the world.

Open, O Lord, the eyes of all people to behold thy gracious 
hand in all thy works, that, rejoicing in thy whole creation, 
they may honor thee with their substance, and be faithful 
stewards of thy bounty.

And we most humbly beseech thee, of thy goodness, O Lord, 
to comfort and succor [&mdash. and] all those who, in this 
transitory life, are in trouble, sorrow, need, sickness, or any 
other adversity.

<page 329>

*Additional petitions and thanksgivings may be included here.*

And we also bless thy holy Name for all thy servants 
departed this life in thy faith and fear [especially &mdash.], 
beseeching thee to grant them continual growth in thy love 
and service; and to grant us grace so to follow the good 
examples of [&mdash. and of] all thy saints, that with 
them we may be partakers of thy heavenly kingdom.

Grant these our prayers, O Father, for Jesus Christ's sake, 
our only Mediator and Advocate.  =Amen.=


*If there is no celebration of the Communion, or if a priest is not 
available, the service is concluded as directed page 406.*


<Confession of Sin>

*A Confession of Sin is said here if it has not been said earlier.  On 
occasion, the Confession may be omitted.*

*The Deacon or Celebrant says the following, or else the Exhortation
page 316.*

Ye who do truly and earnestly repent you of your sins, and 
are in love and charity with your neighbors, and intend to 
lead a new life, following the commandments of God, and 
walking from henceforth in his holy ways:  Draw near with 
faith, and make your humble confession to Almighty God, 
devoutly kneeling. 

*or this*

Let us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God.

*Silence may be kept.*

<page 331>

*Minister and People*

Almighty God,
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
maker of all things, judge of all men:
We acknowledge and bewail our manifold sins 
/and wickedness,
which we from time to time most grievously have committed, 
by thought, word, and deed, against thy divine Majesty, 
provoking most justly thy wrath and indignation against us. 
We do earnestly repent,
and are heartily sorry for these our misdoings;
the remembrance of them is grievous unto us, 
the burden of them is intolerable.
Have mercy upon us,
have mercy upon us, most merciful Father; 
for thy Son our Lord Jesus Christ's sake, 
forgive us all that is past;
and grant that we may ever hereafter
serve and please thee in newness of life, 
to the honor and glory of thy Name; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against thee 
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved thee with our whole heart; 
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. 
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent. 
For the sake of thy Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in thy will,
and walk in thy ways,
to the glory of thy Name.  =Amen.=

<page 332>

*The Bishop when present, or the Priest, stands and says*

Almighty God, our heavenly Father, who of his great mercy 
hath promised forgiveness of sins to all those who with 
hearty repentance and true faith turn unto him, have mercy 
upon you, pardon and deliver you from all your sins, confirm 
and strengthen you in all goodness, and bring you to 
everlasting life; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*A Minister may then say one or more of the following sentences, first 
saying*

Hear the Word of God to all who truly turn to him.

Come unto me, all ye that travail and are heavy laden, and I will
refresh you.  =Matthew 11:28=

God so loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son, 
to the end that all that believe in him should not perish, but 
have everlasting life.  =John 3:16=

This is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be received, 
that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.  
=I Timothy 1:15=

If any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus 
Christ the righteous; and he is the perfect offering for our 
sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole 
world.  =I John 2:1-2=


<The Peace>

*All stand.  The Celebrant says to the people*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And with thy spirit.


*Then the Ministers and People may greet one another in the name of the 
Lord.*

<page 333>


<The Holy Communion>

*The Celebrant may begin the Offertory with one of the sentences on 
pages 343-344, or with some other sentence of Scripture.*

*During the Offertory, a hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*

*Representatives of the congregation bring the people's offerings of 
bread and wine, and money or other gifts, to the deacon or celebrant.  
The people stand while the offerings are presented and placed on the 
Altar.*


<The Great Thanksgiving>

*An alternative form will be found on page 340.*


<Eucharistic Prayer I>

*The people remain standing.  The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, 
faces them and sings or says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And with thy spirit.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them up unto the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks unto our Lord God. 

*People*  It is meet and right so to do.


*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celebrant proceeds*

It is very meet, right, and our bounden duty, that we should 
at all times, and in all places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord, 
holy Father, almighty, everlasting God.

<page 334>

*Here a Proper Preface is sung or said on all Sundays, and on other 
occasions as appointed.*

Therefore with Angels and Archangels, and with all the 
company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious 
Name; evermore praising thee, and saying,

*Celebrant and People*

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts:
Heaven and earth are full of thy Glory.
Glory be to thee, O Lord Most High.

*Here may be added*

Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Hosanna in the highest.


*The people kneel or stand.*

*Then the Celebrant continues*

All glory be to thee, Almighty God, our heavenly Father, for 
that thou, of thy tender mercy, didst give thine only Son Jesus 
Christ to suffer death upon the cross for our redemption; who 
made there, by his one oblation of himself once offered, a full, 
perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction, for 
the sins of the whole world; and did institute, and in his holy 
Gospel command us to continue, a perpetual memory of that 
his precious death and sacrifice, until his coming again.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to hold 
or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine to be 
consecrated*

For in the night in which he was betrayed, he took bread; 
and when he had given thanks, he brake it, and gave it to his 
<page 335>
disciples, saying, "Take, eat, this is my Body, which is given for 
you.  Do this in remembrance of me."

Likewise, after supper, he took the cup; and when he had 
given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, "Drink ye all of this; 
for this is my Blood of the New Testament, which is shed for 
you, and for many, for the remission of sins. Do this, as oft as 
ye shall drink it, in remembrance of me."

Wherefore, O Lord and heavenly Father, according to the 
institution of thy dearly beloved Son our Savior Jesus Christ, 
we, thy humble servants, do celebrate and make here before 
thy divine Majesty, with these thy holy gifts, which we now 
offer unto thee, the memorial thy Son hath commanded us to 
make; having in remembrance his blessed passion and precious 
death, his mighty resurrection and glorious ascension; 
rendering unto thee most hearty thanks for the innumerable 
benefits procured unto us by the same.

And we most humbly beseech thee, O merciful Father, to 
hear us; and, of thy almighty goodness, vouchsafe to bless 
and sanctify, with thy Word and Holy Spirit, these thy gifts 
and creatures of bread and wine; that we, receiving them 
according to thy Son our Savior Jesus Christ's holy institution, 
in remembrance of his death and passion, may be partakers 
of his most blessed Body and Blood.

And we earnestly desire thy fatherly goodness mercifully to 
accept this our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving; most 
humbly beseeching thee to grant that, by the merits and 
death of thy Son Jesus Christ, and through faith in his blood, 
we, and all thy whole Church, may obtain remission of our 
sins, and all other benefits of his passion.

<page 336>

And here we offer and present unto thee, O Lord, our selves, 
our souls and bodies, to be a reasonable, holy, and living 
sacrifice unto thee; humbly beseeching thee that we, and all 
others who shall be partakers of this Holy Communion, may 
worthily receive the most precious Body and Blood of thy Son 
Jesus Christ, be filled with thy grace and heavenly benediction, 
and made one body with him, that he may dwell in us, and 
we in him.

And although we are unworthy, through our manifold sins, 
to offer unto thee any sacrifice, yet we beseech thee to accept 
this our bounden duty and service, not weighing our merits, 
but pardoning our offences, through Jesus Christ our Lord;

By whom, and with whom, in the unity of the Holy Ghost, 
all honor and glory be unto thee, O Father Almighty, world 
without end.  AMEN.


And now, as our Savior Christ hath taught us, we are bold 
to say,

*People and Celebrant*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
  hallowed be thy Name,
  thy kingdom come,
  thy will be done,
    on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
  as we forgive those who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
  but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=

<page 337>


<The Breaking of the Bread>

*The Celebrant breaks the consecrated Bread.*

*A period of silence is kept.*


*Then may be sung or said*

[Alleluia.]  Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us; 
Therefore let us keep the feast.  [Alleluia.]

*In Lent, Alleluia is omitted, and may be omitted at other times except 
during Easter Season.*

*The following or some other suitable anthem may be sung or said here*

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
have mercy upon us.

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
have mercy upon us.

O Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world,
grant us thy peace.


*The following prayer may be said.  The People may join in saying this 
prayer*

We do not presume to come to this thy Table, O merciful 
Lord, trusting in our own righteousness, but in thy manifold 
and great mercies.  We are not worthy so much as to gather 
up the crumbs under thy Table.  But thou art the same Lord 
whose property is always to have mercy.  Grant us therefore, 
gracious Lord, so to eat the flesh of thy dear Son Jesus Christ, 
and to drink his blood, that we may evermore dwell in him, 
and he in us.  =Amen.=

<page 338>

*Facing the people, the Celebrant may say the following Invitation*

The Gifts of God for the People of God.

*and may add*

Take them in remembrance that Christ died for you, and
feed on him in your hearts by faith, with thanksgiving.

*The ministers receive the Sacrament in both kinds, and then immediately
deliver it to the people*


*The Bread and the Cup are given to the communicants with these words*

The Body of our Lord Jesus Christ, which was given for thee, 
preserve thy body and soul unto everlasting life.  Take and eat 
this in remembrance that  Christ died for thee, and feed on 
him in thy heart by faith, with thanksgiving.

The Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, which was shed for thee, 
preserve thy body and soul unto everlasting life.  Drink this in 
remembrance that Christ's Blood was shed for thee, and be 
thankful.

*or with these words*

The Body (Blood) of our Lord Jesus Christ keep you in 
everlasting life.  [=Amen.=] 

*or with these words*

The Body of Christ, the bread of heaven.  [=Amen.=]

The Blood of Christ, the cup of salvation.  [=Amen.=]


*During the ministration of Communion, hymns, psalms, or anthems may be 
sung.*

*When necessary, the Celebrant consecrates additional bread and wine, 
using the form on page 408.*


*After Communion, the Celebrant says*

Let us pray.

*The People may join in saying this prayer*

Almighty and everliving God, we most heartily thank thee 
for that thou dost feed us, in these holy mysteries, with the 
spiritual food of the most precious Body and Blood of thy 
Son our Savior Jesus Christ; and dost assure us thereby of 
thy favor and goodness towards us; and that we are very 
members incorporate in the mystical body of thy Son, the 
blessed company of all faithful people; and are also heirs, 
through hope, of thy everlasting kingdom.  And we humbly 
beseech thee, O heavenly Father, so to assist us with thy 
grace, that we may continue in that holy fellowship, and do 
all such good works as thou hast prepared for us to walk in; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom with thee and the 
Holy Ghost, be all honor and glory, world without end.  
=Amen.=


*The Bishop when present, or the Priest, gives the blessing*

The peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep 
your hearts and minds in the knowledge and love of God, 
and of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord; and the blessing of 
God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, be 
amongst you, and remain with you always.  =Amen.=

*or this*

The blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the 
Holy Spirit, be upon you and remain with you for ever.  =Amen.=


*The Deacon, or the Celebrant, may dismiss the people with these words*

Let us go forth in the name of Christ.

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*or the following*

<page 340>

*Deacon*  Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*or this*

*Deacon*  Let us go forth into the world, rejoicing in the power of the 
Spirit. 

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*or this*

*Deacon*  Let us bless the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*From the Easter Vigil through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" 
may be added to any of the dismissals.*

*The People respond*  Thanks be to God.  Alleluia, Alleluia.


<Alternative Form
of the Great Thanksgiving>


<Eucharistic Prayer II>

*The people remain standing.  The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest,
faces them and sings or says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And with thy spirit.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them up unto the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks unto our Lord God.

*People*  It is meet and right so to do.

<page 341>

*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celbrant proceeds*

It is very mee, right, and our bounden duty, that we should
at all times, and in all places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord,
holy Father, almighty, everlasting God.


*Here a Proper Preface is sung or said on all Sundays, and on other
occasions as appointed.*

Therefore with Angels and Archangels, and with all the
company of heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious
Name; evermore praising thee, and saying,


*Celebrant and People*

Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of Hosts:
Heaven and earth are full of thy glory.
Glory be to thee, O Lord Most High.

*Here may be added*

Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Hosanna in the highest.


*The people kneel or stand.*

*Then the Celebrant continues*

All glory be to thee, O Lord our God, for that thou didst
create heaven and earth, and didst make us in thine own
image; and, of thy tender mercy, didst give thine only Son
Jesus Christ to take our nature upon him, and to suffer death
upon the cross for our redemption.  He made there a full and
perfect sacrifice for the whole world; and did institute, and in
his holy Gospel command us to continue, a perpetual
memory of that his precious death and sacrifice, until his
coming again.

<page 342>

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to hold 
or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine to be 
consecrated*

For in the night in which he was betrayed, he took bread;
and when he had given thanks to thee, he broke it, and gave it
to his disciples, saying, "Take, eat, this is my Body, which is
given for you.  Do this in remembrance of me."

Likewise, after supper, he took the cup; and when he had
given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, "Drink this, all of
you; for this is my Blood of the New Covenant, which is shed
for you, and for many, for the remission of sins.  Do this, as
oft as ye shall drink it, in remembrance of me."

Wherefore, O Lord and heavenly Father, we thy people do
celebrate and make, with these thy holy gifts which we now
offer unto thee, the memorial thy Son hath commanded us to
make; having in remembrance his blessed passion and precious
death, his mighty resurrection and glorious ascension; and
looking for his coming again with power and great glory.

And we most humbly beseech thee, O merciful Father, to
hear us, and, with thy Word and Holy Spirit, to bless and
sanctify these gifts of bread and wine, that they may be unto
us the Body and Blood of thy dearly-beloved Son Jesus
Christ.

And we earnestly desire thy fatherly goodness to accept this
our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving, whereby we offer
and present unto thee, O Lord, our selves, our souls and
bodies.  Grant, we beseech thee, that all who partake of this
Holy Communion may worthily receive the most precious
Body and Blood of thy Son Jesus Christ, and be filled with
thy grace and heavenly benediction; and also that we and all
thy whole Church may be made one body with him, that he
<page 343>
may dwell in us, and we in him; through the same Jesus
Christ our Lord;

By whome, and with whom, and in whom, in the unity of the
Holy Ghost all honor and glory be unto thee, O Father
Almighty, world without end.  AMEN.

And now, as our Savior Christ hath taught us, we are bold
to say,

*Continue with the Lord's Prayer, page 336.*


<Offertory Sentences>

*One of the following, or some other appropriate sentence of Scripture
may be used*

Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and make good thy
vows unto the Most High.  =Psalm 50:14=

Ascribe to the Lord the honor due his Name; bring offerings
and come into his courts.  =Psalm 96:8=

Walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself for us, an
offering and sacrifice to God.  =Ephesians 5:2=

I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present
yourselves as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God,
which is your spiritual worship.  =Romans 12:1=

If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that
thy brother hath aught against thee, leave there thy gift
before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy
brother, and then come and offer thy gift.  =Matthew 5:23,24=

<page 344>

Through Christ let us continually offer to God the sacrifice of
praise, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his Name.
But to do good and to distribute, forget not; for with such
sacrifices God is well pleased.  =Hebrews 13:15,16=

Worthy art thou, O Lord our God, to receive glory and honor
and power; for thou hast created all things, and by thy will
they were created and have their being.  =Revelation 4:11=

Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory,
and the victory, and the majesty.  For all that is in the heaven
and in the earth is thine.  Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and
thou art exalted as head above all.  =1 Chronicles 29:11=

*or this bidding*

Let us with gladness present the offerings and oblations of
our life and labor to the Lord.


<Proper Prefaces>


<Preface of the Lord's Day>

*To be used on Sundays as appointed, but not on the succeeding weekdays*

=1.  Of God the Father=

Creator of the light and source of life, who hast made us in
thine image, and called us to new life in Jesus Christ our
Lord.

*or the following*

<page 345>


=2.  Of God the Son=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who on the first day of the
week overcame death and the grave, and by his glorious
resurrection opened to us the way of everlasting life.

*or this*


=3.  Of God the Holy Spirit=

Who by water and the Holy Spirit hast made us a new people
in Jesus Christ our Lord, to show forth thy glory in all the
world.


<Prefaces for Seasons>

*To be used on Sundays and weekdays alike, except as otherwise
appointed for Holy Days and Various Occasions*


=Advent=

Because thou didst send thy beloved Son to redeem us from
sin and death, and to make us heirs in him of everlasting life;
that when he shall come again in power and great triumph to
judge the world, we man without shame or fear rejoice to
behold his appearing.


=Incarnation=

Because thou didst give Jesus Christ, thine only Son, to be
born for us; who, by the mighty power of the Holy Ghost,
was made very Man of the substance of the Virgin Mary his
mother; that we might be delivered from the bondage of sin,
and receive power to become thy children.

<page 346>


=Epiphany=

Because in the mystery of the Word made flesh, thou hast
caused a new light to shine in our hearts, to give the knowledge
of thy glory in the face of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord.


=Lent=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who was in every way
tempted as we are, yet did not sin; wy whose grace we are
able to triumph over every evil, and to live no longer unto
outselves, but unto him who died for us and rose again.

*or this*

Who dost bid thy faithful people cleanse their hearts, and
prepare with joy for the Paschal feast; that, fervent in prayer
and in works of mercy, and renewed by thy Word and
Sacraments, they may come to the fulness of grace which
thou hast prepared for those who love thee.


=Holy Week=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who for our sins was lifted
high upon the cross, that he might draw the whole world to
himself; who by his suffering and death became the author of
eternal salvation for all who put their trust in him.


=Easter=

But chiefly are we bound to praise thee for the glorious
resurrection of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord; for he is the
very Paschal Lamb, who was sacrificed for us, and hath
taken away the sin of the world; who by his death hath
destroyed death, and by his rising to life again hath won for
us everlasting life.

<page 347>


=Ascension=

Through thy dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who
after his glorious resurrection manifestly appeared to his
disciples; and in their sight ascended into heaven, to prepare
a place for us; that where he is, there we might also be, and
reign with him in glory.


=Pentecost=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; according to whose true
promise the Holy Ghost came down [on this day] from
heaven, lighting upon the disciples, to teach them and to lead
them into all truth; uniting peoples of many tongues in the
confession of one faith, and giving to thy Church the power
to serve thee as a royal priesthood, and to preach the Gospel
to all nations.


<Prefaces for Other Occasions>


=Trinity Sunday=

For with thy co-eternal Son and Holy Spirit, thou art one God,
one Lord, in Trinity of Persons and in Unity of Substance;
and we celebrate the one and equal glory of thee, O Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.


=All Saints=

Who, in the multitude of thy saints, hast compassed us about
with so great a cloud of witnesses, that we, rejoicing in their
fellowship, may run with patience the race that is set before
us; and, together with them, may receive the crown of glory
that fadeth not away.

<page 348>


=A Saint=

For the wonderful grace and virtue declared in all thy saints,
who have been chosen vessels of thy grace, and the lights
of the world in their generations.

*or this*

Who in the obedience of thy saints hast given us an example
of righteousness, and in their eternal joy a glorious pledge of
the hope of our calling.

*or this*

Because thou are greatly glorified in the assembly of thy saints.
All thy creatures praise thee, and thy faithful servants bless
thee, confessing before the rulers of this world the great Name
of thine only Son.


=Apostles and Ordinations=

Through the great shepherd of thy flock, Jesus Christ our
Lord; who after his resurrection sent forth his apostles to
preach the Gospel and to teach all nations; and promised to
be with them always, even unto the end of the ages.


=Dedication of a Church=

Through Jesus Christ our great High Priest; in whom we are
build up as living stones of a holy temple, that we might offer
before thee a sacrifice of praise and prayer which is holy and
pleasing in thy sight.


=Baptism=

Because in Jesus Christ our Lord thou hast received us as thy
sons and daughters, made us citizens of thy kingdom, and
given us the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth.

<page 349>


=Marriage=

Because in the love of wife and husband, thou hast given us
an image of the heavenly Jerusalem, adorned as a bride for
her bridegroom, thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who loveth
her and gave himself for her, that he might make the whole
creation new.


=Commemoration of the Dead=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who rose victorious from the
dead, and doth comfort us with the blessed hope of
everlasting life; for to thy faithful people, O Lord, life is
changed, not ended; and when our mortal body doth lie in
death, there is prepared for us a dwelling place eternal in the
heavens.

<page 350>


<The Decalogue: Contemporary>

Hear the commandments of God to his people:

I am the Lord your God who brought you out of bondage.
You shall have no other gods but me.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not make for yourself any idol.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not invoke with malice the Name of the Lord your God. 
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

Honor your father and your mother.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not commit murder.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not commit adultery.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not steal.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not be a false witness.
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

You shall not covet anything that belongs to your neighbor. 
=Amen.  Lord have mercy.=

<page 351>


<A Penitential Order: Rite Two>

*For use at the beginning of the Liturgy, or as a separate service.*

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*

*The people standing, the Celebrant says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Celebrant*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Celebrant*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*When used as a separate service, the Exhortation, page 316, may be 
read, or a homily preached.*

*The Decalogue may be said, the people kneeling.*

*The Celebrant may read one of the following sentences*

Jesus said, "The first commandments is this: Hear, O Israel: 
The Lord your God is the only Lord.  Love the Lord your 
God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your 
mind, and with all your strength.  The second is this: Love 
your neighbor as yourself.  There is no commandment 
greater than these."   =Mark 12:29-31=

<page 352>

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the 
truth is not in us.  But if we confess our sins, God, who is 
faithful and just, will forgive our sins and cleanse us from all 
unrighteousness.  =1 John 1:8,9=

Since we have a great high priest who has pased through the 
heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us with confidence draw 
near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and 
find grace to help in time of need.   =Hebrews 4:14,16=


*The Deacon or Celebrant then says*

Let us confess our sins against God and our neighbor.

*Silence may be kept.*


*Minister and People*

Most merciful God,we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed, 
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. 
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent. 
For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen.

<page 353>

*The Bishop when present, or the Priest, stands and says*

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all 
goodness, and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you 
in eternal life.  =Amen.=

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form substitutes "us" for 
"you" and "our" for "your."*

*When this Order is used at the beginning of the Liturgy, the service 
continues with the Gloria in excelsis, the Kyrie eleison, or the 
Trisagion.*

*When used separately, it concludes with suitable prayers, and the Grace 
or a blessing.*

<page 354>


<Concerning the Celebration>

*It is the bishop's prerogative, when present, to be the principal 
celebrant at the Lord's Table, and to preach the Gospel.*

*At all celebrations of the Liturgy, it is fitting that the principal 
celebrant, whether bishop or priest, be assisted by other priests, and 
by deacons and lay persons.*

*It is appropriate that other priests present stand with the celebrant 
at the Altar, and join in the consecration of the gifts, in breaking the 
Bread, and in distributing Communion.*

*A deacon should read the Gospel and may lead the Prayers of the People.  
Deacons should also serve at the Lord's Table, preparing and placing on 
it the offerings of bread and wine, and assisting in the ministration of 
the sacrament to the people.  In the absence of a deacon, these duties 
may be performed by an assisting priest.*

*Lay persons appointed by the celebrant should normally be assigned the 
reading of the Lessons which precede the Gospel, and may lead the 
Prayers of the People.*

*Morning or Evening Prayer may be used in place of all that precedes the 
Peace and the Offertory, provided that a lesson from the Gospel is 
always included, and that the intercessions conform to the directions 
given for the Prayers of the People.*

*Additional Directions are on page 406.*

<page 355>



The Holy Eucharist:  Rite Two>


<The Word of God>

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*

*The people standing, the Celebrant says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  
Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Celebrant*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Celebrant*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*The Celebrant may say*

Almighty God, to you all hearts are open, all desires known, 
and from you no secrets are hid: Cleanse the thoughts of our 
hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may 
perfectly love you, and worthily magnify your holy Name; 
through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 355>

*When appointed, the following hymn or some other song of praise is sung 
or said, all standing*

Glory to God in the highest,
 and peace to his people on earth.

Lord God, heavenly King,
almighty God and Father,
 we worship you, we give you thanks,
 we praise you for your glory.

Lord Jesus Christ, only Son of the Father, 
Lord God, Lamb of God,
you take away the sin of the world:
 have mercy on us;
you are seated at the right hand of the Father: 
 receive our prayer.

For you alone are the Holy One,
you alone are the Lord,
you alone are the Most High,
 Jesus Christ,
 with the Holy Spirit,
 in the glory of God the Father.  Amen.


*On other occasions the following is used*

Lord, have mercy.
=Christ, have mercy.=
Lord, have mercy.

*or this*

Holy God,
Holy and Mighty,
Holy Immortal One,
=Have mercy upon us.=

<page 357>


<The Collect of the Day>

*The Celebrant says to the people*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Let us pray.


*The Celebrant says the Collect.*

*People*  Amen.


<The Lessons>

*The people sit.  One or two Lessons, as appointed, are read, 
the Reader first saying*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash..

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*


*After each Reading, the Reader may say*

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle).

*Silence may follow.*


*A Psalm, hymn, or anthem may follow each Reading.*


*Then, all standing, the Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first 
saying*

The Holy Gospel of Our Lord Jesus Christ
according to &mdash..

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

<page 358>

*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord. 
*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.


<The Sermon>


*On Sundays and other Major Feasts there follows, all standing*


<The Nicene Creed>

We believe in one God,
 the Father, the Almighty,
 maker of heaven and earth,
 of all that is, seen and unseen.

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ,
 the only Son of God,
 eternally begotten of the Father,
 God from God, Light from Light,
 true God from true God,
 begotten, not made,
 of one Being with the Father.
 Through him all things were made.
 For us and for our salvation
  he came down from heaven:
 by the power of the Holy Spirit
  he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
  and was made man.
 For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
  he suffered death and was buried.
 On the third day he rose again
  in accordance with the Scriptures;
 he ascended into heaven
  and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
<page 359>
 He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
  and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, 
 who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
 With the Father and the Son he is worshiped and glorified.
 He has spoken through the Prophets.
 We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
 We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
 We look for the resurrection of the dead,
  and the life of the world to come.  Amen.
 

<The Prayers of the People>

*Prayer is offered with intercession for

  The Universal Church, its members, and its mission 

  The Nation and all in authority

  The welfare of the world

  The concerns of the local community

  Those who suffer and those in any trouble

  The departed (with commemoration of a saint when appropriate)*

*See the forms beginning on page 383.*

*If there is no celebration of the Communion, or if a priest is not 
available, the service is concluded as directed on page 406.*


<Confession of Sin>

*A Confession of Sin is said here if it has not been said earlier.  On 
occasion, the Confession may be omitted.*

*One of the sentences from the Penitential Order on page 351 may be 
said.*

<page 360>

*The Deacon or Celebrant says*

Let us confess our sins against God and our neighbor.

*Silence may be kept.*

*Minister and People*

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. We are truly sorry and we 
humbly repent. For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen.


*The Bishop, when present, or the Priest, stands and says*

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all 
goodness, and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in 
eternal life.  =Amen.=


<The Peace>

*All stand.  The Celebrant says to the people*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Then the Ministers and People may greet one another in the name of the 
Lord.*

<page 363>


<The Holy Communion>

*The Celebrant may begin the Offertory with one of the sentences on page 
376, or with some other sentence of Scripture.*

*During the Offertory, a hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*

*Representatives of the congregation bring the people's offerings of 
bread and wine, and money or other gifts, to the deacon or celebrant. 
The people stand while the offerings are presented and placed on the 
Altar.*


<The Great Thanksgiving>

*Alternative forms will be found on page 367 and following.*


<Eucharistic Prayer A>

*The people remain standing.  The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, 
faces them and sings or says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*   And also with you.

*Celebrant*   Lift up your hearts.

*People*   We lift them to the Lord.

*Celebrant*   Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

*People*   It is right to give him thanks and praise.


*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celebrant proceeds*

It is right, and a good and joyful thing, always and every-
where to give thanks to you, Father Almighty, Creator of 
heaven and earth.

*Here a Proper Preface is sung or said on all Sundays, and on other 
occasions as appointed.*

<page 362>

Therefore we praise you, joining our voices with Angels and 
Archangels and with all the company of heaven, who for ever 
sing this hymn to proclaim the glory of your Name:


*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
heaven and earth are full of your glory.
  Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
  Hosanna in the highest.

*The people stand or kneel.*


*Then the Celebrant continues*

Holy and gracious Father: In your infinite love you made us 
for yourself, and, when we had fallen into sin and become 
subject to evil and death, you, in your mercy, sent Jesus 
Christ, your only and eternal Son, to share our human 
nature, to live and die as one of us, to reconcile us to you, the 
God and Father of all.

He stretched out his arms upon the cross, and offered himself, 
in obedience to your will, a perfect sacrifice for the whole 
world.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or to lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to 
hold or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine 
to be consecrated.*

On the night he was handed over to suffering and death, our 
Lord Jesus Christ took bread; and when he had given thanks 
to you, he broke it, and gave it to his disciples, and said, "Take, 
eat: This is my Body, which is given for you.  Do this for the 
remembrance of me."

<page 363>

After supper he took the cup of wine; and when he had given 
thanks, he gave it to them, and said, "Drink this, all of you: 
This is my Blood of the new Covenant, which is shed for you 
and for many for the forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink 
it, do this for the remembrance of me."

Therefore we proclaim the mystery of faith:

*Celebrant and People*

Christ has died.

Christ is risen.

Christ will come again.


*The Celebrant continues*

We celebrate the memorial of our redemption, O Father, in 
this sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving.  Recalling his death, 
resurrection, and ascension, we offer you these gifts.

Sanctify them by your Holy Spirit to be for your people the 
Body and Blood of your Son, the holy food and drink of new 
and unending life in him.  Sanctify us also that we may faithfully 
receive this holy Sacrament, and serve you in unity, constancy, 
and peace; and at the last day bring us with all your saints 
into the joy of your eternal kingdom.

All this we ask through your Son Jesus Christ: By him, and 
with him, and in him, in the unity of the Holy Spirit all honor 
and glory is yours, Almighty Father, now and for ever.  =AMEN.=

And now, as our Savior
Christ has taught us,
we are bold to day,

<parallel column>

As our Savior Christ
has taught us,
we now pray,

<page 364>


*People and Celebrant*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed by thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
  on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And Forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
  who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen.

<parallel column>

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be your Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
  on earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
 who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever. Amen.


<The Breaking of the Bread>

*The Celebrant breaks the consecrated Bread.*

*A period of silence is kept.*

*Then may be sung or said*

[Alleluia.]  Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us;
=Therefore let us keep the feast.  [Alleluia.]=

*In Lent, Alleluia is omitted, and may be omitted at other times except 
during Easter Season.*

*In place of, or in addition to, the preceding, some other suitable 
anthem may be used.*

*Facing the people, the Celebrant says the following Invitation*

The Gifts of God for the People of God.

<page 365>

*and may add*

  Take them in remembrance that Christ died for you, and
  feed on him in your hearts by faith, 
  with thanksgiving.

*The ministers receive the Sacrament in both kinds, and then immediately 
deliver it to the people.*

*The Bread and the Cup are given to the communicants with these words*

The Body (Blood) of our Lord Jesus Christ keep you in 
everlasting life.  [=Amen.=]

*or with these words*

The Body of Christ, the bread of heaven.  [=Amen.=]

The Blood of Christ, the cup of salvation.  [=Amen.=]

*During the ministration of Communion, hymns, psalms, or anthems may be 
sung.*

*When necessary, the Celebrant consecrates additional bread and wine, 
using the form on page 408.*

*After Communion, the Celebrant says*

Let us pray.

*Celebrant and People*

Eternal God, heavenly Father,
you have graciously accepted us as living members
of your Son our Savior Jesus Christ,
and you have fed us with spiritual food 
in the Sacrament of his Body and Blood.
Send us now into the world in peace,
and grant us strength and courage
to love and serve you
with gladness and singleness of heart;
through Christ our Lord.  Amen.

*or the following*

<page 366>

Almighty and everliving God,
we thank you for feeding us with the spiritual food 
of the most precious Body and Blood
of your Son our Savior Jesus Christ;
and for assuring us in these holy mysteries
that we are living members of the Body of your Son, 
and heirs of your eternal kingdom.
And now, Father, send us out
to do the work you have given us to do,
to love and serve you
as faithful witnesses of Christ our Lord.
To him, to you, and to the Holy Spirit,
be honor and glory, now and for ever.  Amen.

*The Bishop, when present, or the Priest, may bless the people.*


*The Deacon, or the Celebrant, dismisses them with these words*

Let us go forth in the name of Christ.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*or this*

*Deacon*   Go in peace to love and serve the Lord.

*People*   Thanks be to God.

*or this*

*Deacon*   Let us go forth into the world,
rejoicing in the power of the Spirit. 

*People*   Thanks be to God.

*or this*

*Deacon*   Let us bless the Lord.

*People*   Thanks be to God.

*From the Easter Vigil through the Day of Pentecost "Alleluia, alleluia" 
may be added to any of the dismissals.*

*The People respond*   Thanks be to God.  Alleluia, alleluia.

<page 367>


<Alternative Forms
of the Great Thanksgiving>


<Eucharistic Prayer B>

*The people remain standing.  The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, 
faces them and says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them to the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise.


*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celebrant proceeds*

It is right, and a good and joyful thing, always and every-
where to give thanks to you, Father Almighty, Creator of 
heaven and earth.

*Here a Proper Preface is sung or said on all Sundays, and on other 
occasions as appointed.*

Therefore we praise you, joining our voices with Angels and 
Archangels and with all the company of heaven, who for ever 
sing this hymn to proclaim the glory of your Name:

*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
heaven and earth are full of your glory.
  Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
  Hosanna in the highest.

<page 368>

*The people stand or kneel.*

*Then the Celebrant continues*

We give thanks to you, O God, for the goodness and love 
which you have made known to us in creation; in the calling 
of Israel to be your people; in your Word spoken through the 
prophets; and above all in the Word made flesh, Jesus, your 
Son.  For in these last days you sent him to be incarnate from 
the Virgin Mary, to be the Savior and Redeemer of the world.  
In him, you have delivered us from evil, and made us worthy 
to stand before you.  In him, you have brought us out of error 
into truth, out of sin into righteousness, out of death into life.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or to lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to 
hold or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine 
to be consecrated.*

On the night before he died for us, our Lord Jesus Christ took 
bread; and when he had given thanks to you, he broke it, and 
gave it to his disciples, and said, "Take, eat: This is my Body, 
which is given for you.  Do this for the remembrance of me."

After supper he took the cup of wine; and when he had given 
thanks, he gave it to them, and said, "Drink this, all of you: 
This is my Blood of the new Covenant, which is shed for you 
and for many for the forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink 
it, do this for the remembrance of me."

Therefore, according to his command, O Father,

*Celebrant and People*

We remember his death,
We proclaim his resurrection,
We await his coming in glory;

<page 369>

*The Celebrant continues*

And we offer our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving to you, 
O Lord of all; presenting to you, from your creation, this 
bread and this wine.

We pray you, gracious God, to send your Holy Spirit upon 
these gifts that they may be the Sacrament of the Body of 
Christ and his Blood of the new Covenant.  Unite us to your 
Son in his sacrifice, that we may be acceptable through him, 
being sanctified by the Holy Spirit.  In the fullness of time, 
put all things in subjection under your Christ, and bring us to 
that heavenly country where, with [&mdash. and] all your 
saints, we may enter the everlasting heritage of your sons and 
daughters; through Jesus Christ our Lord, the firstborn of all 
creation, the head of the Church, and the author of our 
salvation.

By him, and with him, and in him, in the unity of the Holy 
Spirit all honor and glory is yours, Almighty Father, now and 
for ever.  =AMEN.=

And now, as our Savior
Christ has taught us,
we are bold to say,

<parallel column>

As our Savior Christ
has taught us,
we now pray,

*Continue with the Lord's Prayer on page 364.*


<Eucharistic Prayer C>

*In this prayer, the lines in italics are spoken by the People.*

*The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, faces them and sings or says*

The Lord be with you.
=And also with you.=

<page 370>

Lift up your hearts.
=We lift them to the Lord.=

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
=It is right to give him thanks and praise.=

*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celebrant proceeds*

God of all power, Ruler of the Universe, you are worthy of 
glory and praise.
=Glory to you for ever and ever.=

At your command all things came to be: the vast expanse of 
interstellar space, galaxies, suns, the planets in their courses, 
and this fragile earth, our island home.
=By your will they were created and have their being.=

From the primal elements you brought forth the human race, 
and blessed us with memory, reason, and skill.  You made us 
the rulers of creation.  But we turned against you, and betrayed 
your trust; and we turned against one another.
=Have mercy, Lord, for we are sinners in your sight.=

Again and again, you called us to return.  Through prophets 
and sages you revealed your righteous Law.  And in the 
fullness of time you sent you only Son, born of a woman, to 
fulfill your Law, to open for is the way of freedom and peace.
=By his blood, he reconciled us.
By his wounds, we are healed.=

And therefore we praise you, joining with the heavenly 
chorus, with prophets, apostles, and martyrs, and with all 
those in every generation who have looked to you in hope, to 
proclaim with them your glory, in their unending hymn:

<page 371>

*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
heaven and earth are full of your glory.
  Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
  Hosanna in the highest.


*The Celebrant continues*

And so, Father, we who have been redeemed by him, and 
made a new people by water and the Spirit, now bring before 
you these gifts. Sanctify them by your Holy Spirit to be the 
Body and Blood of Jesus Christ our Lord.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or lay a hand upon it, and at the words concerning the cup, to hold 
or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine to be 
consecrated.*

On the night he was betrayed he took bread, said the 
blessing, broke the bread, and gave it to his friends, and 
said, "Take, eat: This is my Body, which is given for you.  Do 
this for the remembrance of me."

After supper, he took the cup of wine, gave thanks, and 
said, "Drink this, all of you: This is my Blood of the new 
Covenant, which is shed for you and for many for the 
forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink it, do this for the 
remembrance of me."

Remembering now his work of redemption, and offering to you this 
sacrifice of thanksgiving,
=We celebrate his death and resurrection,
as we await the day of his coming.=

<page 372>

Lord God of our Fathers: God of Abraham, Isaac, and 
Jacob; God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ: Open our 
eyes to see your hand at work in the world about us.  Deliver 
us from the presumption of coming to this Table for solace 
only, and not for strength; for pardon only, and not for 
renewal.  Let the grace of this Holy Communion make us one 
body, one spirit in Christ, that we may worthily serve the 
world in his name.
=Risen Lord, be known to us in the breaking of the Bread.=

Accept these prayers and praises, Father, through Jesus 
Christ our great High Priest, to whom, with you and the 
Holy Spirit, your Church gives honor, glory, and worship, 
from generation to generation.  =AMEN.=

And now, as our Savior
Christ has taught us,
we are bold to say,

<parallel column>

As our Savior Christ
has taught us,
we now pray,


*Continue with the Lord's Prayer on page 364.*


<Eucharistic Prayer D>

*The People remain standing.  The Celebrant, whether bishop or priest, 
faces them and sings or says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them to the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise.

<page 373>

*Then, facing the Holy Table, the Celebrant proceeds*

It is truly right to glorify you, Father, and to give you thanks; 
for you alone are God, living and true, dwelling in light 
inaccessible from before time and for ever.

Fountain of life and source of all goodness, you made all 
things and fill them with your blessing; you created them to 
rejoice in the splendour of your radiance.

Countless throngs of angels stand before you to serve you 
night and day; and, beholding the glory of your presence, 
they offer you unceasing praise.  Joining with them, and 
giving voice to every creature under heaven, we acclaim you, 
and glorify your Name, as we sing (say),


*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
heaven and earth are full of your glory.
  Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
  Hosanna in the highest.

*The people stand or kneel.*


*Then the Celebrant continues*

We acclaim you, holy Lord, glorious in power.  Your mighty 
works reveal your wisdom and love.  You formed us in your 
own image, giving the whole world into our care, so that, in 
obedience to you, our Creator, we might rule and serve all 
your creatures.  When our disobedience took us far from you, 
you did not abandon us to the power of death.  In your mercy 
you came to our help, so that in seeking you we might find 
you.  Again and again you called us into covenant with you, 
and through the prophets you taught us to hope for salvation.

<page 374>

Father, you loved the world so much that in the fullness of 
time you sent your only Son to be our Savior.  Incarnate by 
the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, he lived as one of 
us, yet without sin.  To the poor he proclaimed the good news 
of salvation; to prisoners, freedom; to the sorrowful, joy.  To 
fulfill your purpose he gave himself up to death; and, rising 
from the grave, destroyed death, and made the whole 
creation new.

And, that we might live no longer for ourselves, but for him 
who died and rose for us, he sent the Holy Spirit, his own 
first gift for those who believe, to complete his work in 
the world, and to bring to fulfillment the sanctification of all.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or lay a hand upon it, and at the words concerning the cup, to hold 
or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine to be 
consecrated.*

When the hour had come for him to be glorified by you, his 
heavenly Father, having loved his own who were in the 
world, he loved them to the end; at supper with them he took 
bread, and when he had given thanks to you, he broke it, and 
gave it to his disciples, and said, "Take, eat: This is my Body, 
which is given for you.  Do this for the remembrance of me."

After supper he took the cup of wine; and when he had given 
thanks, he gave it to them, and said, "Drink this, all of you: 
This is my Blood of the new Covenant, which is shed for you 
and for many for the forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink 
it, do this for the remembrance of me."

Father, we now celebrate this memorial of our redemption.  
Recalling Christ's death and his descent among the dead, 
proclaiming his resurrection and ascension to your right 
hand, awaiting his coming in glory; and offering to you, from 
the gifts you have given us, this bread and this cup, we praise 
you and we bless you.

<page 375>

*Celebrant and People*

We praise you, we bless you,
we give thanks to you,
and we pray to you, Lord our God.


*The Celebrant continues*

Lord, we pray that in your goodness and mercy your Holy 
Spirit may descend upon us, and upon these gifts, sanctifying 
them and showing them to be holy gifts for your holy people, 
the bread of life and the cup of salvation, the Body and Blood 
of your Son Jesus Christ.

Grant that all who share this bread and cup may become one 
body and one spirit, a living sacrifice in Christ, to the praise 
of your Name.

Remember, Lord, your one holy catholic and apostolic 
Church, redeemed by the blood of your Christ.  Reveal its 
unity, guard its faith, and preserve it in peace.

[Remember (NN. and) all who minister in your Church.]
[Remember all your people, and those who seek your truth.] 
[Remember &mdash..]
[Remember all who have died in the peace of Christ, and 
those whose faith is known to you alone; bring them into 
the place of eternal joy and light.]

And grant that we may find our inheritance with [the Blessed 
Virgin Mary, with patriarchs, prophets, apostles, and martyrs, 
(with &mdash.) and] all the saints whe have found favor 
with you in ages past.  We praise you in union with them 
and give you glory through your Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

Through Christ, and with Christ, and in Christ, all honor and 
glory are yours, Almighty God and Father, in the unity of the 
Holy Spirit, for ever and for ever.  =AMEN.=

<page 376>

And now, as our Savior
Christ has taught us,
we are bold to say,

<parallel column>

As our Savior Christ
has taught us,
we now pray,

*Continue with the Lord's Prayer on page 364.*


<Offertory Sentences>

*One of the following, or some other appropriate sentence of Scripture, 
may be used*

Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and make good 
your vows to the Most High.  =Psalm 50:14=

Ascribe to the Lord the honor due his Name; bring 
offering and come into his courts.  =Psalm 96:8=

Walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself for us, an 
offering and sacrifice to God.  =Ephesians 5:2=

I appeal to you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present 
yourselves as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, 
which is your spiritual worship.  =Romans 12:1=

If you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember 
that your brother has something against you, leave your gift 
there before the altar and go; first be reconciled to your 
brother, and then come and offer your gift.  =Matthew 5:23, 24=

Through Christ let us continually offer to God the sacrifice of 
praise, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his Name.  
<page 377>  
But do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, 
for such sacrifices are pleasing to God.  =Hebrews 13:14, 15=

O Lord our God, you are worthy to receive glory and honor 
and power; because you have created all things, and by your 
will they were created and have their being.  =Revelation 4:11=

Yours, O Lord, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the 
victor, and the majesty.  For everything in heaven and on 
earth is yours.  Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom, and you are 
exalted as head over all.  =1 Chronicles 19:11=

*or this bidding*

Let us with gladness present the offerings and oblations of our life and 
labor to the Lord.



<Proper Prefaces>


<Preface of the Lord's Day>

*To be used on Sundays as appointed, but not on the succeeding weekdays*

=1.  Of God the Father=

For you are the source of light and life, you made is in your image, and 
called us to new life in Jesus Christ our Lord.

*or this*

=2.  Of God the Son=

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who on the first day of the 
week overcame death and the grave, and by his glorious 
resurrection opened to us the way of everlasting life.

*or the following*

<page 378>

=3.  Of God the Holy Spirit=

For by water and the Holy Spirit you have made us a new 
people in Jesus Christ our Lord, to show forth your glory in 
all the world.


<Prefaces for Seasons>

*To be used on Sundays, and weekdays alike, except as otherwise 
appointed for Holy Days and Various Occasions*


<Advent>

Because you sent your beloved Son to redeem us from sin and death, and 
to make us heirs in him of everlasting life; that when he shall come 
again in power and great triumph to judge the world, we may without 
shame or fear rejoice to behold his appearing.


<Incarnation>

Because you gave Jesus Christ, your only Son, to be born for us; who, by 
the mighty power of the Holy Spirit, was made perfect Man of the flesh 
of the Virgin Mary his mother; so that we might be delivered from the 
bondage of sin, and receive power to become your children.


<Epiphany>

Because in the mystery of the Word made flesh, you have caused a new 
light to shine in our hearts, to give the knowledge of your glory in the 
face of your son Jesus Christ our Lord.

<page 379>


<Lent>

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who was tempted in every way as we are, 
yot did not sin.  By his grace we are able to triumph over every evil, 
and to live no longer for ourselves alone, but for him who died for us 
and rose again.

*or this*

You bid your faithful people cleanse their hearts, and prepare with joy 
for the Paschal feast; that, fervent in prayer and in works of

mercy, and renewed by your Word and Sacraments, they may come to the 
fullness of grace which you have prepared for those who love you.


<Holy Week>

Through Jesus Christ our Lord.  For our sins he was lifted high upon the 
cross, that he might draw the whole world to himself; and, by his 
suffering and death, he became the source of eternal salvation for all 
who put their trust in him.


<Easter>

But chiefly are we bound to praise you for the glorious resurrection of 
your Son Jesus Christ our Lord; for he is the true Paschal Lamb, who was 
sacrificed for us, and has taken away the sin of the world. By his death 
he has destroyed death, and by his rising to life again he has won for 
us everlasting life.


<Ascension>

Through your dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  After his 
glorious resurrection he openly appeared to his disciples, and in their 
sight ascended into heaven, to prepare a place for us; that where he is, 
there we might also be, and reign with him in glory.

<page 380>


<Pentecost>

Through Jesus Christ our Lord.  In fulfillment of his true promise, the 
Holy Spirit came down [on this day] from heaven, lighting upon the 
disciples, to teach them and to lead them into all truth; uniting 
peoples of many tongues in the confession of one faith, and giving to 
your Church the power to serve you as a royal priesthood, and to preach 
the Gospel to all nations.


<Prefaces for Other Occasions>


<Trinity Sunday>

For with your co-eternal Son and Holy Spirit, you are one God, one Lord, 
in Trinity of Persons and in Unity of Being; and we celebrate the one 
and equal glory of you, O Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit.


<All Saints>

For in the multitudeof your saints you have surrounded us with a great 
cloud of witnesses, that we might rejoice in their fellowship, and run 
with endurance the race that is set before us; and, together with them, 
receive the crown of glory that never fades away.


<A Saint>

For the wonderful grace and virtue declared in all your saints, who have 
been the chosen vessels of your grace, and the lights of the world in 
their generations.

*or this*

Because in the obedience of your saints you have given us an example of 
righteousness, and in their eternal joy a glorious pledge of the hope of 
our calling.

<page 381>

*or this*

Because you are greatly glorified in the assembly of your 
saints.  All your creatures praise you, and your faithful 
servants bless you, confessing before the rulers of this world 
the great Name of your only Son.


<Apostles and Ordinations>

Through the great shepherd of your flock, Jesus Christ our 
Lord; who after his resurrection sent forth his apostles to 
preach the Gospel and to teach all nations; and promised to 
be with them always, even to the end of the ages.


<Dedication of a Church>

Through Jesus Christ our great High Priest; in whom we are 
built up as living stones of a holy temple, that we might offer 
before you a sacrifice of praise and prayer which is holy and 
pleasing in your sight.


<Baptism>

Because in Jesus Christ our Lord you have received us as your 
sons and daughters, made us citizens of your kingdom, and 
given us the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth.


<Marriage>

Because in the love of wife and husband, you have given us 
an image of the heavenly Jerusalem, adorned as a bride for 
her bridegroom, your Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who loves 
her and gave himself for her, that he might make the whole 
creation new.

<page 382>


Commemoration of the Dead

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who rose victorious from the 
dead, and comforts us with the blessed hope of everlasting 
life.  For to your faithful people, O Lord, life is changed, not 
ended; and when our mortal body lies in death, there is 
prepared for us a dwelling place eternal in the heavens.

<page 383>



<The Prayers of the People>

*Prayer is offered with intercession for

  The Universal Church, its members, and its mission

  The Nation and all in authority

  The welfare of the world

  The concerns of the local community

  Those who suffer and those in any trouble

  The departed (with commemoration of a saint when appropriate)*


*Any of the forms which follow may be used.*

*Adaptations or insertions suitable to the occasion may be made.*

*Any of the forms may be conformed to the language of the Rite being 
used.*

*A bar in the margin indicates petitions which may be omitted.*

*The Celebrant may introduce the Prayers with a sentence of invitation 
related to the occasion, or the season, or the Proper of the Day.*


<Form I>

*Deacon or other leader*

With all our heart and with all our mind, let us pray to the 
Lord, saying "Lord, have mercy."

[[For the peace from above, for the loving-kindness of God,
and for the salvation of our souls, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

For the peace of the world, for the welfare of the Holy Church 
of God, and for the unity of all peoples, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

<page 384>

For our Bishop, and for all the clergy and people, let us pray 
to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

For our President, for the leaders of the nations, and for all in 
authority, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

For this city (town, village, &mdash.), for every city and 
community, and for those who live in them, let us pray to 
the Lord. 
=Lord, have mercy.=

[[For seasonable weather, and for an abundance of the fruits of 
the  earth, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

For the good earth which God has given us, and for the 
wisdom and will to conserve it, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

[[For those who travel on land, on water, or in the air [or 
through  outer space], let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

For the aged and infirm, for the widowed and orphans, and 
for the sick and the suffering, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

[[For &mdash., let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

For the poor and the oppressed, for the unemployed and the 
destitute, for prisoners and captives, and for all who 
remember and care for them, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

For all who have died in the hope of the resurrection, and for 
all the departed, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

<page 385>

For deliverance from all danger, violence, oppression, and 
degradation, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

[[For the absolution and remission of our sins and offenses, let us  
pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

That we may end our lives in faith and hope, without 
suffering and without reproach, let us pray to the Lord.
=Lord, have mercy.=

[[Defend us, deliver us, and in thy compassion protect us, O 
Lord, by  thy grace.
=Lord, have mercy.=]]

In the communion of [&mdash. and of all the] saints, let 
us commend ourselves, and one another, and all our life, to 
Christ our God.
=To thee, O Lord our God.=

*Silence.*

*The Celebrant adds a concluding Collect.*


<Form II>

*In the course of the silence after each bidding, the People offer their 
own prayers, either silently or aloud.*

I ask your prayers for God's people throughout the world; 
for our Bishop(s) &mdash.; for this gathering; and for all 
ministers and people.

Pray for the Church.

*Silence*

<page 386>

I ask your prayers for peace; for goodwill among nations; 
and for the well-being of all people.

Pray for justice and peace.

*Silence*


I ask your prayers for the poor, the sick, the hungry, the 
oppressed, and those in prison.

Pray for those in any need or trouble.

*Silence*


I ask your prayers for all who seek God, or a deeper 
knowledge of him. Pray that they may find and be found by him.

*Silence*


I ask your prayers for the departed [especially &mdash.].

Pray for those who have died.

*Silence*


[[Members of the congregation may ask the prayers or the
thanksgivings of those present

I ask your prayers for &mdash..

I ask your thanksgiving for &mdash.]]

*Silence*


Praise God for those in every generation in whom Christ has been honored 
[especially _________ whom we remember today].

Pray that we may have grace to glorify Christ in our own day.

*Silence*

<page 387>

*The Celebrant adds a concluding Collect.*


<Form III>

*The Leader and People pray responsively*

Father, we pray for your holy Catholic Church;
=That we all may be one.=

Grant that every member of the Church may truly and 
humbly serve you; 
=That your Name may be glorified by al people.=

We pray for all bishops, priests, and deacons;
=That they may be faithful ministers of your Word and 
Sacraments.=

We pray for all who govern and hold authority in the nations 
of the world;
=That there may be justice and peace on the earth.=

Give us grace to do your will in all that we undertake; 
=That our works may find favor in your sight.=

Have compassion on those who suffer from any grief or trouble; 
=That they may be delivered from their distress.=

Give to the departed eternal rest.
=Let light perpetual shine upon them.=

We praise you for your saints who have entered into joy;
=May we also come to share in your heavenly kingdom.=

Let us pray for our own needs and those of others.

*Silence*

<page 388>

*The People may add their own petitions.*

*The Celebrant adds a concluding Collect.*


<Form IV>

*Deacon or other leader*

Let us pray for the Church and for the world.

Grant, Almighty God, that all who confess your Name may 
be united in your truth, live together in your love, and reveal 
your glory in the world.

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=


Guide the people of this land, and of all the nations, in the 
ways of justice and peace; that we may honor one another 
and serve the common good.

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=


Give us all a reverence for the earth as your own creation, 
that we may use its resources rightly in the service of others 
and to your honor and glory.

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=


Bless all whose lives are closely linked with ours, and grant 
that we may serve Christ in them, and love one another as he 
loves us.

<page 389>

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=


Comfort and heal all those who suffer in body, mind, or 
spirit; give them courage and hope in their troubles, and 
bring them the joy of your salvation.

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=


We commend to your mercy all who have died, that your will 
for them may be fulfilled; and we pray that we may share 
with all your saints in your eternal kingdom.

*Silence*

Lord, in your mercy
=Hear our prayer.=

*The Celebrant adds a concluding Collect.*


<Form V>

*Deacon or other leader*

In peace, let us pray to the Lord, saying, "Lord, have mercy" 
(or "Kyrie eleison").

For the holy Church of God, that it may be filled with truth 
and love, and be found without fault at the day of your 
coming, we pray to your, O Lord.

*Here and after every petition the People respond*

=Kyrie eleison.=  *or*  =Lord, have mercy.=

<page 390>

For &N. our Presiding Bishop, for &N. (&N.) our own Bishop(s), 
for all bishops and other ministers, and for all the holy people 
of God, we pray to you, O Lord.

For all who fear God and believe in you, Lord Christ, that our 
divisions may cease, and that all may be one as you and the 
Father are one, we pray to you, O Lord.

For the mission of the Church, that in faithful witness it may 
preach the Gospel to the ends of the earth, we pray to you, O 
Lord.


[[For those who do not yet believe, and for those who have lost 
their  faith, we that they may receive the light of the Gospel, we 
pray to  you, O Lord.]]

For the peace of the world, that a spirit of respect and 
forbearance may grow among nations and peoples, we pray 
to you, O Lord.

For those in positions of public trust [especially &mdash.], 
that they may serve justice, and promote the dignity and 
freedom of every person, we pray to you, O Lord.

[[For all who live and work in this community [especially 
&mdash.],  we pray to you, O Lord.]]

[[For a blessing upon all human labor, and for the right use 
of the  riches of creation, that the world may be freed from 
poverty, famine, and disaster, we pray to you, O Lord.]]

For the poor, the persecuted, the sick, and all who suffer; for 
refugees, prisoners, and all who are in danger; that they may 
be relieved and protected, we pray to you, O Lord.

<page 391>

For this =congregation= [for those who are present, and for 
those who are absent], that we may be delivered from 
hardness of heart, and show forth your glory in all that we 
do, we pray to you, O Lord.

[[For our enemies and those who wish us harm, and for all 
whom we have  injured or offended, we pray to you, O Lord.]]

[[For ourselves; for the forgiveness of our sins, and for the 
grace of  the Holy Spirit to amend our lives, we pray to you, O 
Lord.]]

For all who have commended themselves to our prayers; for 
our families, friends, and neighbors; that being freed from 
anxiety, they may live in joy, peace, and health, we pray to 
you, O Lord.

[[For &mdash., we pray to you, O Lord.]]

For all who have died in the communion of your Church, and 
those whose faith is known to you alone, that, with all the 
saints, they may have rest in that place where there is no pain 
or grief, but life eternal, we pray to you, O Lord.

Rejoicing in the fellowship of [the ever-blessed Virgin Mary, (=blessed 
&N.=) and] all the saints, let us commend ourselves, and one another, 
and all our life to Christ our God.
=To you, O Lord our God.=

*Silence*

*The Celebrant adds a concluding Collect, or the following Doxology*

For yours is the majesty, O Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; 
yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory, now and 
for ever.  =Amen.=

<page 392>


<Form VI>

*The Leader and People pray responsively*

In peace, we pray to your, Lord God.

*Silence*

For all people in their daily life and work;
=For our families, friends, and neighbors, and for those who 
are alone.=

For this community, the nation, and the world;
=For all who work for justice, freedom, and peace.=

For the just and proper use of your creation;
=For the victims of hunger, fear, injustice, and oppression.=

For all who are in danger, sorrow, or any kind of trouble;
=For those who minister to the sick, the friendless, and the 
needy.=

For the peace and unity of the Church of God;
=For all who proclaim the Gospel, and all who seek the Truth.=

For [&N. our Presiding Bishop, and &N. (&N.) our Bishop(s); and for] all 
bishops and other ministers;
=For all who serve God in his Church.=

For the special needs and concerns of this congregation.

*Silence*

*The People may add their own petitions*

Hear us, Lord;
=For your mercy is great.=

<page 393>

We thank you, Lord, for all the blessings of this life.

*Silence*

*The People may add their own thanksgivings*

We will exalt you, O God our King;
=And praise your Name for ever and ever.=

We pray for all who have died, that they may have a place in 
your eternal kingdom.

*Silence*

*The People may add their own petitions*

Lord, let your loving-kindness be upon them;
=Who put their trust in you.=

[[We pray to you also for the forgiveness of our sins. 

*Silence may be kept.*

*Leader and People*

Have mercy upon us, most merciful Father;
in your compassion forgive us our sins,
known and unknown,
things done and left undone;
and so uphold us by your Spirit
that we may live and serve you in newness of life,  
to the honor and glory of your Name;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  Amen.]]

*The Celebrant concludes with an absolution or a suitable Collect.*


<The Collect at the Prayers>

*For the concluding Collect, the Celebrant selects

  (a) a Collect appropriate to the season or occasion being celebrated; 

  (b) a Collect expressive of some special need in the life of the local 
congregation;

  (c) a Collect for the mission of the Church;

  (d) a general Collect such as the following:*


<1>

Lord, hear the prayers of =thy= people; and what we have 
asked faithfully, grant that we may obtain effectually, to the 
glory of =thy= Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<2>

Heavenly Father, you have promised to hear what we ask in 
the Name of your Son: Accept and fulfill our petitions, we 
pray, not as we ask in our ignorance, nor as we deserve in our 
sinfulness, but as your know and love us in your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<3>

Almighty and eternal God, ruler of all things in heaven and 
earth: Mercifully accept the prayers of your people, and 
strengthen us to do your will; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.=


<4>

Almighty God, to whom our needs are known before we ask: 
Help us to ask only what accords with your will; and those 
<page 395> 
good things which we dare not, or in our blindness cannot 
ask, grant us for the save of your Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.=


<5>

O Lord our God, accept the fervent prayers of your people; in 
the multitude of your mercies, look with compassion upon us 
and all who turn to you for help; for you are gracious, O 
lover of souls, and to you we give glory, Father, Son, and 
Holy Spirit, now and for ever. =Amen.=


<6>

Lord Jesus Christ, you said to your apostles, "Peace I give 
to you; my own peace I leave with you:" Regard not our sins, 
but the faith of your Church, and give to us the peace and 
unity of that heavenly City, where with the Father and the 
Holy Spirit you live and reign, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


<7>

Hasten, O Father, the coming of =thy= kingdom; and grant that 
we =thy= servants, who now live by faith, may with joy behold 
=thy= Son at his coming in glorious majesty; even Jesus Christ, 
our only Mediator and Advocate.  =Amen.=


<8>

Almighty God, by your Holy Spirit you have made us one 
with your saints in heaven and on earth: Grant that in our 
earthly pilgrimage we may always be supported by this 
fellowship of love and prayer, and know ourselves to be 
surrounded by their witness to your power and mercy.  We 
ask this for the sake of Jesus Christ, in whom all our 
intercessions are acceptable through the Spirit, and who lives 
and reigns for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

<page 396>



<Communion under Special Circumstances>

*This form is intended for use with those who for reasonable cause 
cannot be present at a public celebration of the Eucharist.*

*When persons are unable to be present for extended periods, it is 
desirable that the priest arrange to celebrate the Eucharist with them 
from time to time on a regular basis, using either the Proper of the Day 
or one of those appointed for Various Occasions.  If it is necessary to 
shorten the service, the priest may begin the celebration at the 
Offertory, but it is desirable that a passage from the Gospel first be 
read.*

*At other times, or when desired, such persons may be communicated from 
the reserved Sacrament, using the following form.*

*It is desirable that fellow parishoners, relatives, and friends be 
present, when possible, to communicate with them.*


*The Celebrant, whether priest or deacon, reads a passage of Scripture 
appropriate to the day or occasion, or else one of the following*

God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that 
whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.  
=John 3:16=

Jesus said, "I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall 
not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst." 
=John 6:35=

<page 397>

Jesus said, "I am the living bread which came down from 
heaven; if anyone eats of this bread, he will live for ever; and 
the bread which I shall give for the life of the world is my 
flesh.  For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink 
indeed.  Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in 
me, and I in him."  =John 6:51, 55-56=

Jesus said, "Abide in me, as I in you.  As the branch cannot 
bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can 
you, unless you abide in me.  I am the vine, you are the 
branches.  By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much 
fruit, and so prove to be my disciples.  As the Father has loved 
me, so have I loved you; abide in my love."  =John 15:4-5a, 8-9=

*After the Reading, the Celebrant may comment on it briefly.*

*Suitable prayers may be offered, concluding with the following or some 
other Collect*

Almighty Father, whose dear Son, on the night before he 
suffered, instituted the Sacrament of his Body and Blood: 
Mercifully grant that we may receive it thankfully in 
remembrance of Jesus Christ our Lord, who in these holy 
mysteries gives us a pledge of eternal life; and who lives and 
reigns for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


*A Confession of Sin may follow.  The following or some other form is 
used*

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. 
<page 398>
We are truly sorry and we humbly repent. 
For the sake of your Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen.


*The Priest alone says*

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all 
goodness, and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in 
eternal life.  =Amen.=

*A deacon using the preceding form substitutes "us" for "you" and "our" 
for "your."*


*The Peace may then be exchanged.*


*The Lord's Prayer is said, the Celebrant first saying*

Let us pray in the words our Savior Christ has taught us.

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen.

<parallel column>

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be your Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 how and for ever.  Amen.

<page 399>


*The Celebrant may say the following Invitation*

The Gifts of God for the People of God

*and may add*    Take them in remembrance that Christ died for 
you, and feed on him in your hearts by faith, 
with thanksgiving.


*The Sacrament is administered with the following or other words*

The Body (Blood) of our Lord Jesus Christ keep you in 
everlasting life.  [=Amen.=]


*One of the usual postcommunion prayers is then said, or the following*

Gracious Father, we give you praise and thanks for this Holy 
Communion of the Body and Blood of your beloved Son 
Jesus Christ, the pledge of our redemption; and we pray that 
it may bring us forgiveness of our sins, strength in our 
weakness, and everlasting salvation; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.=

*The service concludes with a blessing or with a dismissal*

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.=

<Page 400>



<An Order for Celebrating
the Holy Eucharist>


*This rite requires careful preparation by the Priest and other 
participants.*

*It is not intended for use at the principal Sunday or weekly 
celebration of the Holy Eucharist.*


<The People and Priest>

  <Gather in the Lord's Name>

  <Proclaim and Respond to the Word of God>

*The proclamation and response may include readings, sons, talk, dance, 
instrumental music, other art forms, silence.  A reading from the Gospel 
is always included.*

  <Pray for the World and the Church>

<page 401>

  <Exchange the Peace>

*Either here or elsewhere in the service, all greet one another in the 
name of the Lord.*

  <Prepare the Table>

*Some of those present prepare the table; the bread, the cup of wine, 
and other offerings, are placed upon it.*

  <Make Eucharist>

*The Great Thanksgiving is said by the Priest in the name of the 
gathering, using one of the eucharistic prayers provided.*

*The people respond--Amen!*

  <Break the Bread>

  <Share the Gifts of God

*The Body and Blood of the Lord are shared in a reverent manner; after
all have received, any of the Sacrament that remains is then consumed.*

*When a common meal or Agape is a part of the celebration, it follows 
here.*


<At the Great Thanksgiving>

*In making Eucharist, the Celebrant uses one of the Eucharistic Prayers 
from Rite One or Rite Two, or one of the following forms*


<Form 1>

*Celebrant*  The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them to the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God. 

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise.


*The Celebrant gives thanks to God the Father for his work in creation 
and his revelation of himself to his people;*

*Recalls before God, when appropriate, the particular occasion being 
celebrated;*

*Incorporates or adapts the Proper Preface of the Day, if desired.*

[[*If the Sanctus is to be included, it is introduced with these or  
similar words*

And so we join the saints and angels in proclaiming your glory, as  we 
sing (say),

*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
 heaven and earth are full of your glory.
    Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
    Hosanna in the highest.

<page 403>

*The Celebrant now praises God for the salvation of the world through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.*

*The Prayer continues with these words*

And so, Father, we bring you these gifts.  Sanctify them by 
your Holy Spirit to be for your people the Body and Blood 
of Jesus Christ our Lord.

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or to lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to 
hold or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine 
to be consecrated.*

On the night he was betrayed he took bread, said the 
blessing, and gave it to his friends, and 
said, "Take, eat: This is my Body, which is given for you.  
Do this for the remembrance of me."

After supper, he took the cup of wine, gave thanks, and 
said, "Drink this, all of you: This is my Blood of the new 
Covenant, which is shed for you and for many for the 
forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink it, do this for the 
remembrance of me."

Father, we now celebrate the memorial of your Son.  By 
means of this holy bread and cup, we show forth the sacrifice 
of his death, and proclaims his resurrection, until he comes 
again.

Gather us by this Holy Communion into one body in your 
Son Jesus Christ.  Make us a living sacrifice of praise.

By him, and with him, and in him, in the unity of the Holy 
Spirit all honor and glory is yours, Almighty Father, now and 
for ever.  AMEN.

<page 404>

<Form 2>

*Celebrant*  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and the love 
of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be 
with you all. 

*People*   And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Lift up your hearts.

*People*  We lift them to the Lord.

*Celebrant*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise.

*The Celebrant gives thanks to God the Father for his work in creation 
and his revelation of himself to his people;*

*Recalls before God, when appropriate, the particular occasion being 
celebrated;*

*Incorporates or adapts the Proper Preface of the Day, if desired.*

[[*If the Sanctus is to be included, it is introduced with these or  
similar words*

And so we join the saints and angels in proclaiming your glory, as  we 
sing (say),

*Celebrant and People*

Holy, Holy, Holy Lord, God of power and might,
 heaven and earth are full of your glory.
    Hosanna in the highest.
 Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.
    Hosanna in the highest.]]

*The Celebrant now praises God for the salvation of the world through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.*

<Page 405>

*At the following words concerning the bread, the Celebrant is to hold 
it, or to lay a hand upon it; and at the words concerning the cup, to 
hold or place a hand upon the cup and any other vessel containing wine 
to be consecrated.*

On the night he was handed over to suffering and death, our 
Lord Jesus Christ took bread; and when he had given thanks 
to you, he broke it, and gave it to his disciples, and said, 
"Take, eat: This is my Body, which is given for you.  Do this 
for the remembrance of me."

After supper he took the cup of wine; and when he had given 
thanks, he gave it to them, and said, "Drink this, all of you: 
This is my Blood of the new Covenant, which is shed for you 
and for many for the forgiveness of sins.  Whenever you drink 
it, do this for the remembrance of me."

Recalling now his suffering and death, and celebrating his 
resurrection and ascension, we await his coming in glory.

Accept, O Lord, our sacrifice of praise, this memorial of our 
redemption.

Send your Holy Spirit upon these gifts.  Let them be for us 
the Body and Blood of your Son.  And grant that we who eat 
this bread and drink this cup may be filled with your life and 
goodness.

*The Celebrant then prays that all may receive the benefits of Christ's 
work, and the renewal of the Holy Spirit.*

*The Prayer concludes with these or similar words*

All this we ask through your Son Jesus Christ.  By him, and 
with him, and in him, in the unity of the Holy Spirit all honor 
and glory is yours, Almighty Father, now and for ever.  AMEN.

<page 406>


*Additional Directions*

*The Holy Table is spread with a clean white cloth during the 
celebration.*

*When the Great Litany is sung or said immediately before the Eucharist, 
the Litany concludes with the Kyries, and the Eucharist begins with the 
Salutation and the Collect of the Day.  The Prayers of the People 
following the Creed may be omitted.*

*When a psalm is used, it may be concluded with Gloria Patri.  In Rite 
One services, the following form of the Gloria may be used:*

Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, 
 and to the Holy Ghost:

As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, 
 world without end.  Amen.

*The Kyrie eleison (or "Lord, have mercy") may be sung or said in 
threefold, sixfold, or ninefold form.  The Trisagion, "Holy God", may be 
sung or said three times, or antiphonally.*

*Gloria in excelsis, or the hymn used in place of it, is sung or said 
from Christmas Day through the Feast of the Epiphany; on Sundays from 
Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost, on all the days of Easter Week, 
and on Ascension Day; and at other times as desired; but it is not used 
on the Sundays or ordinary weekdays of Advent or Lent.*

*It is desirable that the Lessons be read from a lectern or pulpit, and 
that the Gospel be read from the same lectern, or from the pulpit, or 
from the midst of the congregation.  It is desirable that the Lessons 
and the Gospel be read from a book or books of appropriate size and 
dignity.*

*When a portion of the congregation is composed of persons whose native 
tongue is other than English, a reader appointed by the celebrant may 
read the Gospel in the language of the people, either in place of, or in 
addition to, the Gospel in English.*

*If there is no Communion, all that is appointed through the Prayers of 
the People may be said.  (If it is desired to include a Confession of 
Sin, the 
<page 407> 
service begins with the Penitential Order.)  A hymn or anthem may then 
be sung, and the offerings of the people received.  The service may then 
conclude with the Lord's Prayer; and with either the Grace or a 
blessing, or with the exchange of the Peace.*

*In the absence of a priest, all that is described above, except for the 
blessing, may be said by a deacon, or, if there is no deacon, by a lay 
reader.*

*The greeting, "The peace of the Lord be always with you," is addressed 
to the entire assembly.  In the exchange between individuals which may 
follow, any appropriate words of greeting may be used.  If preferred, 
the exchange of the Peace may take place at the time of the 
administration of the Sacrament (before or after the sentence of 
Invitation).*

*Necessary announcements may be made before the service, after the 
Creed, before the Offertory, or at the end of the service, as 
convenient.*

*It is the function of a deacon to make ready the Table for the 
celebration, preparing and placing upon it the bread and wine.  It is 
customary to add a little water to the wine.  The deacon may be assisted 
by other ministers.*

*During the Great Thanksgiving, it is appropriate that there be only one 
chalice on the Altar, and, if need be, a flagon of wine from which 
additional chalices may be filled after the Breaking of the Bread.*

*The following anthem may be used at the Breaking of the Bread:*

Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world:
 have mercy on us.

Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world:
 have mercy on us.

Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world:
 grant us peace.

*While the people are coming forward to receive Communion, the celebrant 
receives the Sacrament in both kinds.  The bishops, priests, and deacons 
at the Holy Table then communicate, and after them the
people.*

*Opportunity is always to be given to every communicant to receive the 
consecrated Bread and Wine separately.  But the Sacrament may be*
<page 408> 
received in both kinds simultaneously, in a manner approved by the 
bishop.*

*When the celebrant is assisted by a deacon or another priest, it is 
customary for the celebrant to administer the consecrated Bread and the 
assistant the Chalice.  When several deacons or priests are present, 
some may administer the Bread and others the Wine.  In the absence of 
sufficient deacons and priests, lay persons licensed by the bishop 
according to the canon may administer the Chalice.*

*If the consecrated Bread or Wine does not suffice for the number of 
communicants, the celebrant is to return to the Holy Table, and 
consecrate more of either or both, by saying*

Hear us, O heavenly Father, and with thy (your) Word and 
Holy Spirit bless and sanctify this bread (wine) that it, also, 
may be the Sacrament of the precious Body (Blood) of thy 
(your) Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who took bread (the cup) 
and said, "This is my Body (Blood)."  =Amen.=

*or else the celebrant may consecrate more of both kinds, saying again 
the words of the Eucharistic Prayer, beginning with the words which 
follow the Sanctus, and ending with the Invocation (in the case of 
Eucharistic Prayer C, ending with the narrative of the Institution).*

*When the service of a priest cannot be obtained, the bishop may, at 
discretion, authorize a deacon to distribute Holy Communion to the 
congregation from the reserved Sacrament in the following manner:

  1.  After the Liturgy of the Word (and the receiving of the people's 
offering), the deacon reverently places the consecrated Sacrament on the 
Altar, during which time a communion hymn may be sung.

  2.  The Lord's Prayer is then said, the deacon first saying, "Let us 
pray in the words our Savior Christ hath (has) taught us."

  3.  And then, omitting the breaking of the Bread, the deacon proceeds 
with what follows in the liturgy as far as the end of the postcommunion 
prayer, and then dismisses the people.*

*If any of the consecrated Bread or Wine remain, apart from any which 
may be required for the Communion of the sick, or of others who for 
<page 409> 
weighty cause could not be present at the celebration, or for the 
administration of Communion by a deacon to a congregation when no priest 
is available, the celebrant or deacon, and other communicants, 
reverently eat and drink it, either after the Communion of the people or 
after the Dismissal.*

*A hymn may be sung before or after the postcommunion prayer.*


*Disciplinary Rubrics*

*If the priest knows that a person who is living a notoriously evil life 
intends to come to Communion, the priest shall speak to that person 
privately, and tell =him= that =he= may not come to the Holy Table until 
=he= has given clear proof of repentance and amendment of life.*

*The priest shall follow the same procedure with those who have done 
wrong to their neighbors and are a scandal to the other members of the 
congregation, not allowing such persons to receive Communion until they 
have made restitution for the wrong they have done, or have at least 
promised to do so.*

*When the priest sees that there is hatred between members of the 
congregation, =he= shall speak privately to them, telling them that they 
may not receive Communion until they have forgiven each other. And if 
the person or persons on one side truly forgive the others and desire 
and promise to make up for their faults, but those on the other side 
refuse to forgive, the priest shall allow those who are penitent to come 
to Communion, but not those who are stubborn.*

*In all such cases, the priest is required to notify the bishop, within 
fourteen days at the most, giving the reasons for refusing Communion.*


<page 411>

<Pastoral Offices>

<page 412>

<Concerning the Service>

*In the course of their Christian development, those baptized at an 
early age are expected, when they are ready and have been duly prepared, 
to make a mature public affirmation of their faith and commitment to the 
responsibilities of their Baptism and to receive the laying on of hands 
by the bishop.*

*Those baptized as adults, unless baptized with laying on of hands by a 
bishop, are also expected to make a public affirmation of their faith 
and commitment to the responsibilities of their Baptism in the presence 
of a bishop and to receive the laying on of hands.*

*When there is no Baptism, the rites of Confirmation, Reception, and the 
Reaffirmation of Baptismal Vows are administered in the following form.*

*If desired, the hymn Gloria in excelsis may be sung immediately after 
the opening versicles and before the salutation, The Lord be with you."*

*The Nicene Creed is not used at this service.*

*It is appropriate that the oblations of bread and wine be presented by 
persons newly confirmed.*

<page 413>


<Confirmation

with forms for Reception and for

the Reaffirmation of Baptismal Vows>


*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung*

*The people standing, the Bishop says*

Blessed by God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. 

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Bishop*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*The Bishop then continues*

There is one Body and one Spirit;

*People*  There is one hope in God's call to us;

*Bishop*  One Lord, one Faith, one Baptism;

*People*  One God and Father of all.

*Bishop*  The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Bishop*  Let us pray.

<page 414>


<The Collect of the Day>

*People*  Amen.

*At the principal service on a Sunday or other feast, the Collect and 
Lessons are properly those of the Day.  At the discretion of the bishop, 
however, the Collect (page 203 or 254) and one or more of the Lessions 
provided "At Confirmation" (page 929) may be substituted.*


<The Lessons>

*The people sit.  One or two Lessons, as appointed, are read, the Reader 
first saying*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash.

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*


*After each Reading the Reader may say*

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.   

*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle). 

*Silence may follow.*

*A Psalm, hymn, or anthem may follow each Reading.*

*Then, all standing, the Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first 
saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to &mdash..

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

<page 415>

*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.  

<The Sermon>


<Presentation and Examination
of the Candidates>


*The Bishop says*

The Candidate(s) will now be presented.

*Presenters*  I present =these persons= for Confirmation.

*or*  I present =these persons= to be received into this
Communion. 

*or*  I present these persons who desire to reaffirm
their baptismal vows.


*The Bishop asks the candidates*

Do you reaffirm your renunciation of evil?

*Candidate*  I do.


*Bishop*

Do you renew your commitment to Jesus Christ?

*Candidate*

I do, and with God's grace I will follow him as my Savior
and Lord. 

<page 416>

*After all have been presented, the Bishop addresses the congregation, 
saying*

Will you who witness these vows do all in your power
 to support these persons in their life in Christ?

*People*  We will.


*The Bishop then says these or similar words*

Let us join with =those= who =are= committing =themselves=
to Christ and renew our own baptismal covenant.


<The Baptismal Covenant>

*Bishop*  Do you believe in God the Father?

*People*  I believe in God, the Father almighty,
creator of heaven and earth.


*Bishop*  Do you believe in Jesus Christ, the Son of God?

*People*  I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord.

  He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit 
and born of the Virgin Mary.

  He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
was crucified, died, and was buried.

  He descended to the dead.

  On the third day he rose again.

  He ascended into heaven,
and is seated at the right hand of the Father. 

  He will come again to judge the living and the dead.


*Bishop*  Do you believe in God the Holy Spirit?

*People*  I believe in the Holy Spirit,

  the holy catholic Church,

  the communion of saints,

<page 417>

  the forgiveness of sins,

  the resurrection of the body,

  and the life everlasting.


*Bishop*  Will you continue in the apostles' teaching and 
fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in the prayers?

*People*  I will, with God's help.


*Bishop*  Will you persevere in resisting evil, and, whenever
 you fall into sin, repent and return to the Lord?

*People*  I will, with God's help.


*Bishop*  Will you proclaim by word and example the Good
News of God in Christ?

*People*  I will, with God's help.


*Bishop*  Will you seek and serve Christ in all persons, loving 
your neighbor as yourself?

*People*  I will, with God's help.


*Bishop*  Will you strive for justice and peace among all 
people, and respect the dignity of every human being?

*People*  I will, with God's help.


<Prayers for the Candidates>

*The Bishop then says to the congregation*

Let us now pray for =these persons= who =have= renewed =their=
commitment to Christ.

*The petitions on pages 305-306 may be used.*

*A period of silence follows.*

<page 418>

*Then the Bishop says*

Almighty God, we thank you that by the death and
resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ you have overcome sin
and brought us to yourself, and that by the sealing 
of your Holy Spirit you have bound us to your service.  Renew in 
=these= your =servants= the covenant you have made with =them= at 
/=their= 
Baptism.  Send =them= forth in the power of that Spirit to 
perform the service you set before =them=; through Jesus Christ 
your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the 
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


<For Confirmation>

*The Bishop lays hands upon each one and says*

Strengthen, O Lord, your servant &N. with your Holy Spirit; 
empower =him= for your service; and sustain =him= all the days of his 
life. =Amen.=

*or this*

Defend, O Lord, your servant &N. with your heavenly grace, 
that =he= may continue yours for ever, and daily increase in 
your Holy Spirit more and more, until =he= comes to your everlasting 
kingdom.  =Amen.=


<For Reception>

&N., we recognize you as a member of the one holy catholic 
and apostolic Church, and we receive you into the fellowship 
of this Communion.  God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, 
bless, preserve, and keep you.  =Amen.=

<page 419>


<For Reaffirmation>

&N., may the Holy Spirit, who has begun a good work in you, 
direct and uphold you in the service of Christ and his 
kingdom.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop concludes with this prayer*

Almighty and everlasting God, let your fatherly hand ever be over
=these= your =servants=; let your Holy Spirit ever be 
with =them=; and so lead =them= in the knowledge and obedience of 
your Word, that =they= may serve you in this life, and dwell 
with you in the life to come; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.=


*The Peace is then exchanged*

*Bishop*  The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*The service then continues with the Prayers of the People or the 
Offertory of the Eucharist, at which the Bishop should be the principal 
celebrant.*

*If there is no celebration of the Eucharist, the service continues with 
the Lord's Prayer and such other devotions as the Bishop may direct.*

*The Bishop may consecrate oil of Chrism for use at Baptism, using the 
prayer on page 307.*

<page 420>



<A Form of Commitment
to Christian Service>

*This form may be used when a person wishes to make or renew a 
commitment to the service of Christ in the world, either in general 
terms, or upon undertaking some special responsibility.*

*It is essential that the person seeking to make or renew a commitment 
prepare in advance, in consultation with the celebrant, the Act of 
Commitment, which may be in the form either of a statement of intention 
or of a series of questions and answers, but which should include a 
reaffirmation of baptismal promises.*

*Before the Offertory of the Eucharist, the person comes forward at the 
invitation of the celebrant, and, standing before the congregation, 
makes the Act of Commitment.*


*After this, the Celebrant says these or similar words*

May the Holy Spirit guide and strengthen you, that in this, 
and in all things, you may do God's will in the service 
of the kingdom of his Christ.  =Amen.=

In the name of this congregation I commend you to this 
work, and pledge you our prayers, encouragement, and 
support.

<page 421>

*The Celebrant then says this or some other appropriate prayer*

Let us pray.

Almighty God, look with favor upon =this person= who =has= 
now reaffirmed =his= commitment to follow Christ and to serve 
in his name. Give =him= courage, patience, and vision; and 
strengthen us all in our Christian vocation of witness to the 
world, and of service to others; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord.  =Amen.=

*A prayer for the special work in which the person will be engaged may 
be added.*

*The service then continues with the exchange of the Peace and the 
Offertory.*

<page 422>


*Concerning the Service*

Christian marriage is a solemn and public covenant between a man and a 
woman in the presence of God.  In the Episcopal Church it is required 
that one, at least, of the parties must be a baptized Christian; that 
the ceremony be attested by at least two witnesses; and that the 
marriage conform to the laws of the State and the canons of this 
Church.*

*A priest or a bishop normally presides at the Celebration and Blessing 
of a Marriage, because such ministers alone have the function of 
pronouncing the nuptial blessing, and of celebrating the Holy 
Eucharist.*

*When both a bishop and a priest are present and officiating, the bishop 
should pronounce the blessing and preside at the Eucharist.*

*A deacon, or an assisting priest, may deliver the charge, ask for the 
Declaration of Consent, read the Gospel, and perform other assisting 
functions at the Eucharist.*

*Where it is permitted by civil law that deacons may perform marriages, 
and no priest or bishop is available, a deacon may use the service which 
follows, omitting the nuptial blessing which follows The Prayers.*

*It is desirable that the Lessons from the Old Testament and the 
Epistles be read by lay persons.*

*In the opening exhortation (at the symbol of &N. &N.), the full names 
of the persons to be married are declared.  Subsequently, only their 
Christian names are used.*

*Additional Directions are on page 437.*

<page 423>

<The Celebration and
Blessing of a Marriage>

*At the time appointed, the persons to be married, with their witnesses, 
assemble in the church or some other appropriate place.*

*During their entrance, a hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung, or 
instrumental music may be played.*

*Then the Celebrant, facing the people and the persons to be married, 
with the woman to the right and the man to the left, addresses the 
congregation and says*

Dearly beloved: We have come together in the presence of 
God to witness and bless the joining together of this man and 
this woman in Holy Matrimony.  The bond and covenant of 
marriage was established by God in creation, and our Lord 
Jesus Christ adorned this manner of life by his presence and 
first miracle at a wedding in Cana of Galilee.  It signifies to us 
the mystery of the union between Christ and his Church, and 
Holy Scripture commends it to be honored among all people.

The union of husband and wife in heart, body, and mind is 
intended by God for their mutual joy; for the help and comfort 
given one another in prosperity and adversity; and, when it is 
God's will, for the procreation of children and their nurture 
in the knowledge and love of the Lord.  Therefore marriage is 
not to be entered into unadvisedly or lightly, but reverently, 
deliberately, and in accordance with the purposes for which it 
was instituted by God.

<page 424>

Into this holy union &N. &N.. and &N. &N.. now come to be joined.  If 
any of you can show just cause why they may not lawfully be 
married, speak now; or else for ever hold your peace.


*Then the Celebrant says to the persons to be married*

I require and charge you both, here in the presence of God, 
that if either of you know any reason why you may not be 
united in marriage lawfully, and in accordance with God's 
Word, you do now confess it.


<The Declaration of Consent>

*The Celebrant says to the woman*

&N., will you have this man to be your husband; to live 
together in the covenant of marriage?  Will you love him, 
comfort him, honor and keep him, in sickness and in health; 
and, forsaking all others, be faithful to him as long as you 
both shall live?

*The Woman answers*

I will.


*The Celebrant says to the man*

&N., will you have this woman to be your wife; to live 
together in the covenant of marriage?  Will you love her, 
comfort her, honor and keep her, in sickness and in health; 
and, forsaking all others, be faithful to her as long as you 
both shall live?

*The Man answers*

I will.

<page 425>

*The Celebrant then addresses the congregation, saying*

Will all of you witnessing these promises do all in your 
power to uphold these two persons in their marriage?

*People*  We will.


*If there is to be a presentation or a giving in marriage, 
it takes place at this time.  See page 437.*

*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may follow.*


<The Ministry of the Word>

*The Celebrant then says to the people*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

Let us pray.

O gracious and everliving God, you have created us male and 
female in your image: Look mercifully upon this man and this 
woman who come to you seeking your blessing, and assist 
them with your grace, that with true fidelity and steadfast love 
they may honor and keep the promises and vows they make; 
through Jesus Christ our Savior, who lives and reigns with 
you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  
=Amen.=

<page 426>

*Then one or more of the following passages from Holy Scripture is read.  
If there is to be a Communion, a passage from the Gospel always 
concludes the Readings.*

  Genesis 1:26-28 (Male and female he created them)

  Genesis 2:4-9, 15-24 (A man cleaves to his wife and they become one 
flesh) 

  Song of Solomon 2:10-13; 8:6-7 (Many waters cannot quench love)

  Tobit 8:5b-8 (_New English Bible_) (That she and I may grow old 
together)


  1 Corinthians 13:1-13 (Love is patient and kind)

  Ephesians 3:14-19 (The Father from whom ever family is named)

  Ephesians 5:1-2, 21-33 (Walk in love, as Christ loved us) 

  Colossians 3:12-17 (Love which binds everything together in harmony) 

  1 John 4:7-16 (Let us love one another for love is of God)


*Between the Readings, a Psalm, hymn, or anthem may be sing or said. 
Appropriate Psalms are 67, 127, and 128.*

*When a passage from the Gospel is to be read, all stand, and the Deacon 
or Minister appointed says*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to &mdash..

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

  Matthew 5:1-10 (The Beatitudes)

  Matthew 5:13-16 (You are the light...Let your light so shine) 

  Matthew 7:21,24-29 (Like a wise man who built his house upon the rock) 

  Mark 10:6-9,13-16 (They are no longer two but one)

  John 15:9-12 (Love one another as I have loved you)


*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.

*A homily or other response to the Readings may follow.* 

<page 427>


<The Marriage>

*The Man, facing the woman and taking her right hand in his, says*

In the Name of God, I, &N., take you, &N., to be my wife, to 
have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, 
for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to 
cherish, until we are parted by death.  This is my solemn vow.

*Then they loose their hands, and the Woman, still facing the man, takes 
his right hand in hers, and says*

In the Name of God, I, &N., take you, &N., to be my husband, 
to have and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, 
for richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to 
cherish, until we are parted by death.  This is my solemn vow.

*The loose their hands.*


*The Priest may ask God's blessing on a ring or rings as follows*

Bless, O Lord, =this ring= to be =a sign= of the vows by which 
this man and this woman have bound themselves to each 
other; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*The giver places the ring on the ring-finger of the other's hand and 
says*

&N., I give you this ring as a symbol of my vow, and with all 
that I am, and all that I have, I honor you, in the Name of 
the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit (*or* in the 
Name of God).

<Page 428>

*Then the Celebrant joins the right hands of husband and wife and says*

Now that &N. and &N. have given themselves to each other by 
solemn vows, with the joining of hands and the giving and 
receiving of a ring, I pronounce that they are husband 
and wife, in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
of the Holy Spirit.

Those whom God has joined together let no one put asunder.

*People*  Amen.


<The Prayers>

*All standing, the Celebrant says*

Let us pray together in the words our Savior taught us.

*People and Celebrant*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen.

<parallel column>

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be your Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen.

*If Communion is to follow, the Lord's Prayer may be omitted here.*

<page 429>

*The Deacon or other person appointed reads the following prayers, to 
which the People respond, saying, Amen.*

*If there is not to be a Communion, one or more of the prayers may be 
omitted.*

Let us pray.

Eternal God, creator and preserver of all life, author of 
salvation, and giver of all grace: Look with favor upon 
the world you have made, and for which your Son gave his life, 
and especially upon this man and this woman whom you 
make one flesh in Holy Matrimony.  =Amen.=

Give them wisdom and devotion in the ordering of their 
common life, that each may be to the other a strength in need, a 
counselor in perplexity, a comfort in sorrow, and a companion 
in joy.  =Amen.=

Grant that their wills may be so knit together in your will, 
and their spirits in your Spirit, that they may grow in love
and peace with you and one another all the days of their life.  
=Amen.=

Give them grace, when they hurt each other, to recognize and 
acknowledge their fault, and to seek each other's forgiveness 
and yours.  =Amen.=

Make their life together a sign of Christ's love to this sinful 
and broken world, that unity may overcome estrangement, forgiveness 
heal guilt, and joy conquer despair.  =Amen.=

[[Bestow on them, if it is your will, the gift and heritage of
children, and the grace to bring them up to know you, to love you,
and to serve you.  =Amen.=]]

Give them such fulfillment of their mutual affection that they 
may reach out in love and concern for others.  =Amen.=

<page 430>

Grant that all married persons who have witnessed these vows 
may find their lives strengthened and their loyalties 
confirmed.  =Amen.=

Grant that the bonds of our common humanity, by which all 
your children are united one to another, and the living to the 
dead, may be so transformed by your grace, that your will may 
be done on earth as it is in heaven; where, O Father, with your
Son, and the Holy Spirit, you live and reign in perfect unity, 
now and for ever.  =Amen.=


<The Blessing of the Marriage>

*The people remain standing.  The husband and wife kneel, and the Priest 
says one of the following prayers*

Most gracious God, we give you thanks for your tender love 
in sending Jesus Christ to come among us, to be born of a 
human mother, and to make the way of the cross to be the 
way of life.  We thank you, also, for consecrating the union of 
man and woman in his Name.  By the power of your Holy 
Spirit, your out the abundance of your blessing upon this 
man and this woman.  Defend them from every enemy.  Lead 
them into all peace.  Let their love for each other be a seal 
upon their hearts, a mantle about their shoulders, and a 
crown upon their foreheads.  Bless them in their work and in 
their companionship; in their sleeping and in their waking; in 
their joys and in their sorrows; in their life and in their death.  
Finally, in your mercy, bring them to that table where your 
saints feast for ever in your heavenly home; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord, who with you and the Holy Spirit lives and 
reigns, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

<page 431>

*or this*

O God, you have so consecrated the covenant of marriage 
that in it is represented the spiritual unity between Christ 
and his Church: Send therefore your blessing upon these your 
servants, that they may so love, honor, and cherish each other 
in faithfulness and patience, in wisdom and true godliness, 
that their home may be a haven of blessing and peace; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you 
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The husband and wife still kneeling, the Priest adds this blessing*

God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, bless, 
preserve, and keep you; the Lord mercifully with his favor 
look upon you, and fill you with all spiritual benediction and 
grace; that you may faithfully live together in this life, and 
in the age to come have life everlasting.  =Amen.=


<The Peace>

*The Celebrant may say to the people*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*The newly married couple then greet each other, after which greetings 
may be exchanged throughout the congregation.*

*When Communion is not to follow, the wedding party leaves the church. A 
hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung, or instrumental music may be 
played.*

<page 432>


<At the Eucharist>

*The liturgy then continues with the Offertory, at which the newly 
married couple may present the offerings of bread and wine.*

*Preface of Marriage*

*At the Communion, it is appropriate that the newly married couple 
receive Communion first, after the ministers.*

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, the following is said*

O God, the giver of all that is true and lovely and gracious: 
We give you thanks for binding us together in these holy 
mysteries of the Body and Blood of your Son Jesus Christ.  
Grant that by your Holy Spirit, &N. and &N., now joined in Holy 
Matrimony, may become one in heart and soul, live in fidelity 
and peace, and obtain those eternal joys prepared for all who 
love you; for the sake of Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=

*As the wedding party leaves the church, a hymn, psalm, or anthem may be 
sung, or instrumental music may be played.*

<page 433>



<The Blessing 
of a Civil Marriage>

*The Rite begins as prescribed for celebrations of the Holy Eucharist, 
using the Collect and Lessons appointed in the Marriage service.*

*After the Gospel (and homily), the husband and wife stand before the 
Celebrant, who addresses them in these or similar words*

&N. and &N., you have come here today to seek the blessing of 
God and of his Church upon your marriage.  I require, 
therefore, that you promise, with the help of God, to fulfill 
the obligations which Christian Marriage demands.


*The Celebrant then addresses the husband, saying*

&N., you have taken &N. to be your wife.  Do you promise to 
love her, comfort her, honor and keep her, in sickness and in 
health; and, forsaking all others, to be faithful to her as long 
as you both shall live?

*The Husband answers*  I do.


*The Celebrant then addresses the wife, saying*

&N., you have taken &N. to be your husband.  Do you promise 
to love him, comfort him, honor and keep him, in sickness 
and in health; and, forsaking all others, to be faithful to him 
as long as you both shall live?

*The Wife answers*  I do.

<page 434>

*The Celebrant then addresses the congregation, saying*

Will you who have witnessed these promises do all in your 
power to uphold these two persons in their marriage?

*People*  We will.

*If a ring or rings are to be blessed, the wife extends her hand (and 
the husband extends his hand) toward the Priest, who says*

Bless, O Lord, =this ring= to be =a sign= of the vows by which 
this man and this woman have bound themselves to each 
other; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant joins the right hands of the husband and wife and says 
Those whom God has joined together let no one put asunder.*

*The Congregation responds*  Amen.

*The service continues with The Prayers on page 428.*

<page 435>


<An Order for Marriage>

*If it is desired to celebrate a marriage otherwise than as provided on 
page 423 of this Book, this Order is used.*

*Normally, the celebrant is a priest or bishop.  Where permitted by 
civil law, and when no priest or bishop is available, a deacon may 
function as celebrant, but does not pronounce a nuptial blessing.*

*The laws of the State and the canons of this Church having been 
complied with, the man and the woman, together with their witnesses, 
families, and friends assemble in the church or in some other convenient 
place.*

  1.  The teaching of the Church concerning Holy Matrimony, as it is 
declared in the formularies and canons of this Church, is briefly 
stated.

  2.  The intention of the man and the woman to enter the state of 
matrimony, and their free consent, is publicly ascertained.

  3.  One or more Readings, one of which is always from Holy Scripture, 
may precede the exchange of vows.  If there is to be a Communion, a 
Reading from the Gospel is always included.

  4.  The vows of the man and woman are exchanged, using the following 
form

<page 436>

In the Name of God, I, &N., take you, &N., to be my 
(wife) (husband), to have and to hold from this day forward, 
for better for worse, for richer for poorer, in sickness and in 
health, to love and to cherish, until we are parted by death.  
This is my solemn vow.

*or this*

I, &N., take thee, &N., to my wedded (wife) (husband), to have 
and to hold from this day forward, for better for worse, for 
richer for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to 
cherish, till death do us part, according to God's holy 
ordinance; and thereto I (plight) (give) thee my troth.

  5.  The Celebrant declares the union of the man and woman as husband 
and wife, in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit.

  6.  Prayers are offered for the husband and wife, for their life 
together, for the Christian community, and for the world.

  7.  A priest or bishop pronounces a solemn blessing upon the couple.

  8.  If there is no Communion, the service concludes with the Peace, 
the husband and wife first greeting each other.  The Peace may be 
exchanged throughout the assembly.

  9.  If there is to be a Communion, the service continues with the 
Peace and the Offertory.  The Holy Eucharist may be celebrated either 
according to Rite One or Rite Two in this Book, or according to the 
Order in page 401.

<page 437>


<Additional Directions>

*If Banns are to be published, the following form is used*

I publish the Banns of Marriage between &N. &N.. of &mdash. and &N. &N.. 
of &mdash..  If any of you know just cause why they may not be joined 
together in Holy Matrimony, you are bidden to declare it.  This is the 
first (*or* second, *or* third) time of asking.

*The Celebration and Blessing of a Marriage may be used with any 
authorized liturgy for the Holy Eucharist.  This service then replaces 
the Ministry of the Word, and the Eucharist begins with the Offertory.*

*After the Declaration of Consent, if there is to be a giving in 
marriage, or presentation, the Celebrant asks*

Who gives (presents) this woman to be married to this man?

*or the following*

Who presents this woman and this man to be married to each other?

*To either question, the appropriate answer is, "I do."  If more than 
one person responds, they do so together.*

*For the Ministry of the Word it is fitting that the man and woman to be 
married remain where they may conveniently hear the reading of 
Scripture.  They may approach the Altar, either for the exchange of 
vows, or for the Blessing of the Marriage.*

*It is appropriate that all remain standing until the conclusion of the 
Collect.  Seating may be provided for the wedding party, so that all may 
be seated for the Lessons and the homily.*

*The Apostles' Creed may be recited after the Lessons, or after the
homily, if there is one.*

*When desired, some other suitable symbol of the vows may be used in 
place of the ring.*

<page 438>

*At the Offertory, it is desirable that the bread and wine be presented 
to the ministers by the newly married persons.  They may then remain 
before the Lord's Table and receive Holy Communion before other members 
of the congregation.*

<page 439>


<A Thanksgiving for the Birth
or Adoption of a Child>

*As soon as convenient after the birth of a child, or after receiving a 
child by adoption, the parents, with other members of the family, should 
come to the church to be welcomed by the congregation and to give thanks 
to Almighty God.  It is desirable that this take place at a Sunday 
service.  In the Eucharist it may follow the Prayers of the People 
preceding the Offertory.  At Morning or Evening Prayer it may take place 
before the close of the Office.*

*When desired, a briefer form of this service may be used, especially in 
the hospital or at home; in which case the Celebrant may begin with the 
Act of Thanksgiving, or with the prayer "O God, you have taught is."  A 
passage from Scripture may first be read.  Either Luke 2:41-51, or Luke 
18:15-17, is appropriate.*

*During the prayers, some parents may wish to express thanks in their 
own words.*

*At the proper time, the Celebrant invites the parents and other members 
of the family to present themselves before the Altar.*

<page 440>


<For the Birth of a Child>

*The Celebrant addresses the congregation in these or similar words*

Dear Friends:  The birth of a child is a joyous and solemn 
occasion in the life of a family.  It is also an occasion for 
rejoicing in the Christian community.  I bid you, therefore, 
to join &N. [and &N.] in giving thanks to Almighty God our 
heavenly Father, the Lord of all life, for the gift of &N. to be 
their son (daughter) [and with &N. (and &N. &N..), for a new 
brother (sister)].  Let us say together:

*The service continues with the Magnificat or one of the Psalms on pages 
441-443.*


<For an Adoption>

*The Celebrant addresses the congregation in these or similar words*

Dear Friends:  It has pleased God our heavenly Father to 
answer the earnest prayers of &N. [and &N.], member(s) of this 
Christian family, for the gift of a child.  I bid you join with 
=them= [and with &N. (and &N. &N..), who now =has= a new brother 
(sister)] in offering heartfelt thanks for the joyful and solemn 
responsibility which is =theirs= by the coming of &N. to be a 
member of their family.  But first, our friends wish us, here 
assembled, to witness the inauguration of this new 
relationship.

The Celebrant asks the parent or parents

&N. [and &N.], do you take this child for your own? 

*Parent(s)*  I do.

<page 441>

*Then if the child is old enough to answer, the Celebrant asks*

&N., do you take this woman as your mother?

*Child*  I do.


*Celebrant*  Do you take this man as your father?

*Child*  I do.


*Then the Celebrant, holding or taking the child by the hand, gives the 
child to the mother or father, saying*

As God has made us his children by adoption and grace, may 
you receive &N. as your own son (daughter).


*Then one or both parents say these or similar words*

May God, the Father of all, bless our child &N., and us who 
have given to him our family name, that wwe may live together 
in love and affection; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Act of Thanksgiving>

*The Celebrant says*

Since it has pleased God to bestow upon &N. [and &N.] the gift 
of a child, let us now give thanks to him, and say together:


<The Song of Mary>

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,

my spirit rejoices in God by Savior; 
 for he has looked with favor on his lowly servant.

From this day all generations will call me blessed:  
 the Almighty has done great things for me,
 and holy is his Name.

He has mercy on those who fear him 
 in every generation.

<page 442>

He has shown the strength of his arm, 
 he has scattered the proud in their conceit.

He has cast down the mighty from their thrones,  
 and has lifted up the lowly.

He has filled the hungry with good things, 
 and the rich he has sent away empty.

He has come to the help of his servant Israel,  
 for he has remembered his promise of mercy,

The promise he made to our fathers, 
 to Abraham and his children for ever.

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: 
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.

*or this*


<Psalm 116> 

I love the LORD, because he has heard the voice of my 
/supplication, *
 because he has inclined his ear to me whenever I called 
/upon him.

Gracious is the LORD and righteous; *
 our God is full of compassion.

How shall I repay the LORD *
 for all the good things he has done for me?

I will lift up the cup of salvation *
 and call upon the Name of the LORD.

I will fulfill my vows to the LORD *
 in the presence of all his people.

In the courts of the LORD'S house, *
 in the midst of you, O Jerusalem.
 Hallelujah!

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.

<page 443>

<Psalm 23>  

The LORD is my shepherd; *
 I shall not be in want.

He makes me lie down in green pastures *
 and leads me beside still waters.

He revives my soul *
 and guides me along right pathways for his Name's sake.

Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I shall fear no evil; *
 for you are with me;
 your rod and your staff, they comfort me.

You spread a table before me in the presence of those
/who trouble me; *
 you have anointed my head with oil,
 and my cup is running over.

Surely your goodness and mercy shall follow me all the 
days of my life, *
 and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: *
 as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever.  Amen.


*The Celebrant then says this prayer*

Let us pray.

O God, you have taught us through your blessed Son that 
whoever receives a little child in the name of Christ receives 
Christ himself: We give thanks for the blessing you have 
bestowed upon this family in giving them a child.  Confirm 
their joy by a lively sense of your presence with them, and 
give them calm strength and patient wisdom as they seek to 
bring this child to love all that is true and noble, just and 
pure, lovable and gracious, excellent and admirable, 
following the example of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.  
=Amen.=

<page 444>


<Prayers>

*The Celebrant may add one or more of the following prayers*

=For a safe delivery=

O gracious God, we give you humble and hearty thanks that 
you have preserved through the pain and anxiety of child-
birth your servant &N., who desires now to offer you her praises 
and thanksgivings.  Grant, most merciful Father, that by your 
help she may live faithfully according to your will in this life, 
and finally partake of everlasting glory in the life to come; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=


=For the parents=

Almighty God, giver of life and love, bless &N. and &N.  Grant 
them wisdom and devotion in the ordering of their common 
life, that each may be to the other a strength in need, a 
counselor in perplexity, a comfort in sorrow, and a companion 
in joy.  And so knit their wills together in your will and their 
spirits in your Spirit, that they may live together in love and 
peace all the days of their life; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.=


=For a child not yet baptized=

O eternal God, you have promised to be a father to a 
thousand generations of those who love and fear you: Bless 
this child and preserve =his= life; receive =him= and enable =him= to 
receive you, that through the Sacrament of Baptism =he= may 
become the child of God; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  
=Amen.=


=For a child already baptized=

Into your hands, O God, we place your child &N.  Support =him= 
in =his= successes and in =his= failures, in =his= joys and in =his= 
<page 444> 
sorrows.  As =he= grows in age, may =he= grow in grace, and in 
the knowledge of his Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant may then bless the family*

May God the Father, who by Baptism adopts us as his 
children, grant you grace.  =Amen.=

May God the Son, who sanctified a home at Nazareth, fill 
you with love.  =Amen.=

May God the Holy Spirit, who has made the Church one 
family, keep you in peace.  =Amen.=

*The Peace may be exchanged.*


*The Minister of the Congregation is directed to instruct the people, 
from time to time, about the duty of Christian parents to make prudent 
provision for the well-being of their families, and of all persons to 
make wills, while they are in health, arranging for the disposal of 
their temporal goods, not neglecting, if they are able, to leave 
bequests for religious and charitable uses.*

<page 446>


<Concerning the Rite>

*The ministry of reconciliation, which has been committed by Christ to 
his Church, is exercised through the care each Christian has for others, 
through the common prayer of Christians assembled for public worship, 
and through the priesthood of Christ and his ministers declaring 
absolution.*

*The Reconciliation of a Penitent is available for all who desire it. It 
is not restricted to times of sickness.  Confessions may be heard 
anytime and anywhere.*

*Two equivalent forms of service are provided here to meet the needs of 
penitents.  The absolution in these services may be pronounced only by a 
bishop or priest.  Another Christian may be asked to hear a confession, 
but it must be made clear to the penitent that absolution will not be 
pronounced; instead, a declaration of forgiveness is provided.*

*When a confession is heard in a church building, the confessor may sit 
inside the altar rails or in a place set aside to give greater privacy, 
and the penitent kneels nearby.  If preferred, the confessor and 
penitent may sit face to face for a spiritual conference leading to 
absolution or a declaration of forgiveness.*

*When the penitent has confessed all serious sins troubling the 
conscience and has given evidence of due contrition, the priest gives 
such counsel and encouragement as are needed and pronounces the 
absolution.  Before giving absolution, the priest may assign to the 
penitent a psalm, prayer, or hymn to be said, or something to be done, 
as a sign of penitence and act of thanksgiving.*

*The content of a confession is not normally a matter of subsequent 
discussion.  The secrecy of a confession is morally absolute for the 
confessor, and must under no circumstances be broken.*

<page 447>


<The Reconciliation
of a Penitent>


<Form One>

*The Penitent begins*

Bless me, for I have sinned.


*The Priest says*

The Lord be in your heart and upon your lips that you may 
truly and humbly confess your sins: In the Name of the 
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=


*Penitent*

I confess to Almighty God, to his Church, and to you, that 
I have sinned by my own fault in thought, word, and deed, in 
things done and left undone; especially &mdash..  For these 
and all other sins which I cannot now remember, I am truly 
sorry.  I pray God to have mercy on me.  I firmly intend 
amendment of life, and I humbly beg forgiveness of God and 
his Church, and ask you for counsel, direction, and absolution.

*Here the Priest may offer counsel, direction, and comfort.*

<page 448>

*The Priest then pronounces this absolution*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who has left power to his Church to 
absolve all sinners who truly repent and believe in him, of 
his great mercy forgive you all your offenses; and by his 
authority committed to me, I absolve you from all your sins: 
In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who offered himself to be sacrificed 
for us to the Father, and who conferred power on his Church 
to forgive sins, absolve you through my ministry by the grace 
of the Holy Spirit, and restore you in the perfect peace of 
the Church.  =Amen.=


*The Priest adds*

The Lord has put away all your sins.

*Penitent*  Thanks be to God.

*The Priest concludes*

Go (or abide) in peace, and pray for me, a sinner.


*Declaration of Forgiveness
to be used by a Deacon or Lay Person*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who offered himself to be sacrificed 
for us to the Father, forgives your sins by the grace of the 
Holy Spirit. =Amen.=

<page 449>


<Form Two>

*The Priest and Penitent begin as follows*

Have mercy on me, O God, according to your loving-kindness;
 in your great compassion blot out my offenses.

Wash me through and through from my wickedness,
 and cleanse me from my sin.

For I know my transgressions only too well,
 and my sin is ever before me.

Holy God, Holy and Mighty, Holy Immortal One,
 have mercy upon us.

*Penitent*  Pray for me, a sinner.

*Priest*

May God in his love enlighten your heart, that you may 
remember in truth all your sins and his unfailing mercy.  
=Amen.=

*The Priest may then say one or more of these or other appropriate 
verses of Scripture, first saying*

Hear the Word of God to all who truly turn to him.

Come to me, all ye that travail and are heavy laden, and I 
will refresh you.    =Matthew 11:28=

God so loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son, 
to the end that all that believe in him should not perish, but 
have everlasting life.    =John 3:16=

This is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be received, 
that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.    
=1 Timothy 1:15=

<page 450>

If any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus 
Christ the righteous; and he is the perfect offering for our 
sins, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world.
=1 John 2:1-2=


*The Priest then continues*

Now, in the presence of Christ, and of me, his minister, 
confess your sins with a humble and obedient heart to 
Almighty God, our Creator and our Redeemer.


*The Penitent says*

Holy God, heavenly Father, you formed me from the dust in 
your image and likeness, and redeemed me from sin and 
death by the cross of your Son Jesus Christ.  Through the 
water of baptism you clothed me with the shining garment of 
his righteousness, and established me among your children in 
your kingdom.  But I have squandered the inheritance of your 
saints, and have wandered far in a land that is waste.

Especially, I confess to you and to the Church...

*Here the Penitent confesses particular sins.*

Therefore, O Lord, from these and all other sins I cannot 
now remember, I turn to you in sorrow and repentance.  
Receive me again into the arms of your mercy, and restore me 
to the blessed company of your faithful people; through him 
in whom you have redeemed the world, your Son our Savior 
Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


*The Priest may then offer words of comfort and counsel.*

*Priest*

Will you turn again to Christ as your Lord?

*Penitent*  I will.

<page 451>

Priest

Do you, then, forgive those who have sinned against you?

*Penitent*  I forgive them.

*Priest*

May Almighty God in mercy receive your confession of 
sorrow and of faith, strengthen you in all goodness, and by 
the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in eternal life.  =Amen.=

*The Priest then lays a hand upon the penitent's head (or extends a hand 
over the penitent), saying one of the following*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who offered himself to be sacrificed 
for us to the Father, and who conferred power on his Church 
to forgive sins, absolve you through my ministry by the grace 
of the Holy Spirit, and restore you in the perfect peace of the 
Church.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who has left power to his Church to 
absolve all sinners who truly repent and believe in him, of 
his great mercy forgive you all your offenses; and by his 
authority committed to me, I absolve you from all your sins: 
In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit.  =Amen.=


*The Priest concludes*

Now there is rejoicing in heaven; for you were lost, and 
are found; you were dead, and are now alive in Christ Jesus 
our Lord.  Go (or abide) in peace.  The Lord has put away all 
your sins.

*Penitent*  Thanks be to God.

<page 452>

*Declaration of Forgiveness
to be used by a Deacon or Lay Person*

Our Lord Jesus Christ, who offered himself to be sacrificed 
for us to the Father, forgives your sins by the grace of the 
Holy Spirit. =Amen.=

<page 453>



<Ministration to the Sick>

*In case of illness, the Minister of the Congregation is to be 
notified.*

*At the ministration, one or more parts of the following service are 
used, as appropriate, but when two or more are used together, they are 
used in the order indicated.  The Lord's Prayer is always included.*

*Part One of this service may always be led by a deacon or lay person.*

*When the Laying on of Hands takes place at a public celebration of the 
Eucharist, it is desirable that it precede the distribution of Holy 
Communion, and it is recommended that it take place immediately before 
the exchange of the Peace.*

*The Celebrant begins the service with the following or some other 
greeting*

Peace be to this house (place), and to all who dwell in it.


<Part I.  Ministry of the Word>

*One or more of the following or other passages of Scripture are read*


=General=

  2 Corinthians 1:3-5    (God comforts us in affliction)

  Psalm 91    (He will give his angels charge over you)

  Luke 17:11-19    (Your faith has made you well)

<page 454>


=Penitence=

  Hebrews 12:1-2    (Looking to Jesus, the perfecter of our faith) 

  Psalm 103    (He forgives all your sins)

  Matthew 9:2-8    (Your sins are forgiven)


=When Anointing is to follow=

  James 5:14-16    (Is any among you sick?)

  Psalm 23    (You have anointed my head with oil)

  Mark 6:7,12-13    (They anointed with oil many that were sick)


=When Communion is to follow=

  1 John 5:13-15    (That you may know that you have eternal life) 
  
  Psalm 145:14-22    (The eyes of all wait upon you, O Lord)

  John 6:47-51    (I am the bread of life)


*After any Reading, the Celebrant may comment on it briefly.*

*Prayers may be offered according to the occasion.*

*The Priest may suggest the making of a special confession, if the sick 
person's conscience is troubled, and use the form for the Reconciliation 
of a Penitent.*

*Or else the following general confession may be said*

Most merciful God,
we confess that we have sinned against you
in thought, word, and deed,
by what we have done,
and by what we have left undone.
We have not loved you with our whole heart;
we have not loved our neighbors as ourselves. We are truly sorry and we 
humbly repent.
<page 455>
For the sake of you Son Jesus Christ,
have mercy on us and forgive us;
that we may delight in your will,
and walk in your ways,
to the glory of your Name.  Amen.


*The Priest alone says*

Almighty God have mercy on you, forgive you all your sins 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, strengthen you in all goodness, 
and by the power of the Holy Spirit keep you in eternal life.  
=Amen.=

*A deacon or lay person using the preceding form substitutes "us"
for "you" and "our" for "your."*


<Part II.  Laying on of Hands and Anointing>

[[*If oil for the Anointing of the Sick is to be blessed, the Priest 
says*

O Lord, holy Father, giver of health and salvation: Send your 
Holy Spirit to sanctify this oil; that, as your holy apostles
anointed many that were sick and healed them, so may those 
who in faith and repentance receive this holy unction be 
made whole; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and 
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and 
ever.  =Amen.=]]


*The following anthem is said*

Savior of the world, by your cross and precious blood you 
have redeemed us;
=Save us and help us, we humbly beseech you, O Lord.=


*The Priest then lays hands upon the sick person, and says one of the 
following*

<page 456>

&N., I lay my hands upon you in the Name of the Father, and 
of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, beseeching our Lord Jesus 
Christ to sustain you with his presence, to drive away all 
sickness of body and spirit, and to give you that victory of life 
and peace which will enable you to serve him both now and 
evermore.  =Amen.=

*or this*

&N., I lay my hands upon you in the Name of our Lord and 
Savior Jesus Christ, beseeching him to uphold you and fill 
you with his grace, that you may know the healing power of 
his love.  =Amen.=


*If the person is to be anointed, the Priest dips a thumb in the holy 
oil, and makes the sign of the cross on the sick person's forehead, 
saying*

&N., I anoint you with oil in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, 
and of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=


*The Priest may add*

As you are outwardly anointed with this holy oil, so may our 
heavenly Father grant you the inward anointing of the Holy 
Spirit.  Of his great mercy, may he forgive you your sins, 
release you from suffering, and restore you to wholeness and 
strength.  May he deliver you from all evil, preserve you in all 
goodness, and bring you to everlasting life; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*In cases of necessity, a deacon or lay person may perform the 
anointing, using oil blessed by a bishop or priest.*

*If Communion is not to follow, the Lord's Prayer is now said.*


*The Priest concludes*

The Almighty Lord, who is a strong tower to all who put their 
trust in him, to whom all things in heaven, on earth, and under 
<page 457> 
the earth bow and obey: Be now and evermore your defense, 
and make you know and feel that the only Name under 
heaven given for health and salvation is the Name of our Lord 
Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


<Part III.  Holy Communion>

*If the Eucharist is to be celebrated, the Priest begins with the [Peace 
and] Offertory.*

*If Communion is to be administered from the reserved Sacrament, the 
form for Communion under Special Circumstances is used, beginning with 
the [Peace and] Lord's Prayer on page 398.

*If the sick person cannot receive either the consecrated Bread or the 
Wine, it is suitable to administer the Sacrament in one kind only.*

*One of the usual postcommunion prayers is said, or the following*

Gracious Father, we give you praise and thanks for this Holy 
Communion of the Body and Blood of your beloved Son 
Jesus Christ, the pledge of our redemption; and we pray that 
it may bring us forgiveness of our sins, strength in our 
weakness, and everlasting salvation; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.=


*The service concludes with a blessing or with a dismissal*

Let us bless the Lord.
=Thanks be to God.=

*If a person desires to receive the Sacrament, but, by reason of extreme 
sickness or physical disability, is unable to eat and drink the Bread 
and Wine, the Celebrant is to assure that person that all the benefits 
of Communion are received, even though the Sacrament is not received 
with the mouth.*

<page 458>

<Prayers for the Sick>


=For a Sick Person=

O Father of mercies and God of all comfort, our only help in 
time of need: We humbly beseech thee to behold, visit, and 
relieve thy sick servant &N. for whom our prayers are desired.  
Look upon =him= with the eyes of thy mercy; comfort =him= with 
a sense of thy goodness; preserve =him= from the temptations 
of the enemy; and give =him= patience under =his= affliction.  In 
thy good time, restore =him= to health, and enable =him= to lead 
the residue of =his= life in thy fear, and to thy glory; and grant 
that =he= may dwell with thee in life everlasting; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=For Recovery from Sickness=

O God, the strength of the weak and the comfort of sufferers: 
Mercifully accept our prayers, and grant to your servant &N. 
the help of your power, that =his= sickness may be turned into 
health, and our sorrow into joy; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God of heavenly powers, by the might of your command 
you drive away from our bodies all sickness and all infirmity: 
Be present in your goodness with your servant &N., that =his= 
weakness may be banished and his strength restored; and that, 
his health being renewed, =he= may bless your holy Name; 
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=For a Sick Child=

Heavenly Father, watch with us over your child &N., and grant 
that =he= may be restored to that perfect health which it is 
yours alone to give; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 459>

*or this*

Lord Jesus Christ, Good Shepherd of the sheep, you gather 
the lambs in your arms and carry them in your bosom: We 
commend to your loving care this child &N.  Relieve =his= pain, 
guard =him= from all danger, restore to =him= your gifts of 
gladness and strength, and raise =him= up to a life of service to 
you.  Hear us, we pray, for you dear Name's sake. =Amen.=


=Before an Operation=

Almighty God our heavenly Father, graciously comfort your 
servant &N. in =his= suffering, and bless the means made use of 
for =his= cure.  Fill =his= heart with confidence that, though at times 
=he= may be afraid, he yet may put =his= trust in you; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Strengthen your servant &N., O God, to do what =he= has to do 
and bear what =he= has to bear; that, accepting your healing 
gifts through the skill of surgeons and nurses, =he= may be 
restored to usefulness in your world with a thankful heart; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=


=For Strength and Confidence=

Heavenly Father, giver of life and health: Comfort and 
relieve your sick servant &N., and give your power of healing to 
those who minister to =his= needs, that =he= may be strengthened in 
his weakness and have confidence in your loving care; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 460>


=For the Sanctification of Illness=

Sanctify, O Lord, the sickness of your servant &N., that the 
sense of =his= weakness may add strength to =his= faith and 
seriousness to his repentance; and grant that =he= may live with 
you in everlasting life; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=For Health of Body and Soul=

May God the Father bless you, God the Son heal you, God 
the Holy Spirit give you strength.  May God the holy and 
undivided Trinity guard your body, save your soul, and bring 
you safely to his heavenly country; where he lives and reigns 
for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


=For Doctors and Nurses=

Sanctify, O Lord, those whom you have called to the study 
and practice of the arts of healing, and to the prevention of 
disease and pain. Strengthen them by your life-giving Spirit, 
that by their ministries the health of the community may be 
promoted and your creation glorified; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.=


=Thanksgiving for a Beginning of Recovery=

O Lord, your compassions never fail and your mercies are 
new every morning: We give you thanks for giving our 
brother (sister) &N. both relief from pain and hope of health 
renewed.  Continue in =him=, we pray, the good work you have 
begun; that =he=, daily increasing in bodily strength, and 
rejoicing in your goodness, may so order =his= life and conduct 
that =he= may always think and do those things that please 
you; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 461>


<Prayers for use by a Sick Person>

=For Trust in God=

O God, the source of all health: So fill my heart with faith in 
your love, that with calm expectancy I may make room for 
your power to possess me, and gracefully accept your 
healing; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=In Pain=

Lord Jesus Christ, by your patience in suffering you hallowed 
earthly pain and gave us the example of obedience to your 
Father's will: Be near me in my time of weakness and pain; 
sustain me by your grace, that my strength and courage may 
not fail; heal me according to your will; and help me always 
to believe that what happens to me here is of little account if 
you hold me in eternal life, my Lord and my God. =Amen.=


=For Sleep=

O heavenly Father, you give your children sleep for the 
refreshing of soul and body: Grant me this gift, I pray; keep 
me in that perfect peace which you have promised to those 
whose minds are fixed on you; and give me such a sense of 
your presence, that in the hours of silence I may enjoy the 
blessed assurance of your love; through Jesus Christ our 
Lord.  =Amen.=


=In the Morning=

This is another day, O Lord.  I know not what it will bring 
forth, but make me ready, Lord, for whatever it may be.  If I 
am to stand up, help me to stand bravely.  If I am to sit still, 
help me to sit quietly.  If I am to lie low, help me to do it 
patiently.  And if I am to do nothing, let me do it gallantly.  
Make these words more than words, and give me the Spirit 
of Jesus.  =Amen.=

<page 462>


<Ministration at the
Time of Death>

*When a person is near death, the Minister of the Congregation should be 
notified, in order that the ministrations of the Church may be 
provided.*


=A Prayer for a Person near Death=

Almighty God, look on this your servant, lying in great 
weakness, and comfort him with the promise of life 
everlasting, given in the resurrection of your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Litany at the Time of Death>

*When possible, it is desirable that members of the family and friends 
come together to join in the Litany.*

God the Father,
=Have mercy on your servant.=

God the Son,
=Have mercy on your servant.=

God the Holy Spirit,
=Have mercy on your servant.=

<page 463>

Holy Trinity, one God,
=Have mercy on your servant.=

From all evil, from all sin, from all tribulation,
=Good Lord, deliver him.=

By your holy Incarnation, by your Cross and Passion, by 
your precious Death and Burial,
=Good Lord, deliver him.=

By your glorious Resurrection and Ascension, and by the 
Coming of the Holy Spirit,
=Good Lord, deliver him.=

We sinners beseech you to hear us, Lord Christ: That it may 
please you to deliver the soul of your servant from the power 
of evil, and from eternal death,
=We beseech you to hear us, good Lord.=

That it may please you mercifully to pardon all =his= sins,
=We beseech you to hear us, good Lord.=

That it may please you to grant =him= a place of refreshment 
and everlasting blessedness,
=We beseech you to hear us, good Lord.=

That it may please you to give =him= joy and gladness in your 
kingdom, with your saints in light,
=We beseech you to hear us, good Lord.=

Jesus, Lamb of God:
=Have mercy on *him*.=

Jesus, bearer of our sins:
=Have mercy on *him*.=

Jesus, redeemer of the world:
=Give *him* your peace.=

<page 464>

Lord, have mercy.
=Christ, have mercy.=
Lord, have mercy.

*Officiant and People*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen.

<parallel column>

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be your Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen.


*The Officiant says this Collect*

Let us pray.

Deliver your servant, &N., O Sovereign Lord Christ, from all 
evil, and set =him= free from every bond; that =he= may rest with 
all your saints in the eternal habitations; where with the 
Father and the Holy Spirit your live and reign, one God, for 
ever and ever.  =Amen.=


=A Commendation at the Time of Death=

Depart, O Christian soul, out of this world;
In the Name of God the Father Almighty who created you;
In the Name of Jesus Christ who redeemed you;
In the Name of the Holy Spirit who sanctifies you.
May your rest be this day in peace,
 and your dwelling place in the Paradise of God.

<page 465>


=A Commendatory Prayer=

Into your hands, O merciful Savior, we commend your 
servant &N. Acknowledge, we humbly beseech you, a sheep of 
your own fold, a lamb of your own flock, a sinner of your 
own redeeming.  Receive =him= into the arms of your mercy, 
into the blessed rest of everlasting peace, and into the 
glorious company of the saints in light.  =Amen.=

May =his= soul and the souls of all the departed, through the 
mercy of God, rest in peace.  =Amen.=


=Prayers for a Vigil=

*It is appropriate that the family and friends come together for prayers 
prior to the funeral.  Suitable Psalms, Lessons, and Collects (such as 
those in the Burial service) may be used.  The Litany at the Time of 
Death may be said, or the following*

Dear Friends: It was our Lord Jesus himself who said, 
"Come to me, all you who labor and are burdened, and I will 
give you rest."  Let us pray, then, for our brother (sister) &N., 
that =he= may rest from =his= labors, and enter into the light 
of God's eternal sabbath rest.

Receive, O Lord, your servant, for =he= returns to you.
=Into your hands, O Lord, 
we commend our brother (sister) &N.=

Wash =him= in the holy font of everlasting life, and clothe 
=him= in his heavenly wedding garment.
=Into your hands, O Lord,
we commend our brother (sister) &N.=

May =he= hear your words of invitation, "Come, you blessed of 
my Father."
=Into your hands, O Lord,
we commend our brother (sister) &N.=

<page 466>

May =he= gaze upon you, Lord, face to face, and taste the 
blessedness of perfect rest.
=Into your hands, O Lord,
we commend our brother (sister) &N.=

May angels surround =him=, and saints welcome =him= in peace.
=Into your hands, O Lord,
we commend our brother (sister) &N.=


*The Officiant concludes*

Almighty God, our Father in heaven, before whom live all 
who die in the Lord: Receive our =brother= &N. into the courts of 
your heavenly dwelling place.  Let =his= heart and soul now ring 
out in joy to you, O Lord, the living God, and the God of 
those who live.  This we ask through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Reception of the Body>

*The following form may be used at whatever time the body is brought to 
the church.*

*The Celebrant meets the body at the door of the church and says*

With faith in Jesus Christ, we receive the body of our brother 
(sister) &N. for burial.  Let us pray with confidence to God, the 
Giver of life, that he will raise =him= to perfection in the 
company of the saints.

*Silence may be kept; after which the Celebrant says*

Deliver your servant, &N., O Sovereign Lord Christ, from all 
evil, and set =him= free from every bond; that =he= may rest with 
all your saints in the eternal habitations; where with the 
Father and the Holy Spirit you live and reign, one God, for 
ever and ever.  =Amen.=

<page 467>

Let us also pray for all who mourn, that they may cast their 
care on God, and know the consolation of his love.

*Silence may be kept; after which the Celebrant says*

Almighty God, look with pity upon the sorrows of your 
servants for whom we pray.  Remember them, Lord, in your mercy; 
nourish them with patience; comfort them with a sense of your 
goodness; lift up your countenance upon them; and give them 
peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


*If the Burial service is not to follow immediately, the body is then 
brought into the church, during which time a suitable psalm or anthem 
may be sung or said.  Appropriate devotions, such as those appointed for 
the Vigil on page 465, may follow.*

*When the order for the Burial of the Dead follows immediately, the 
service continues on page 469 or 491.*

*A member of the congregation bearing the lighted Paschal Candle may 
lead the procession into the church.*

<page 468>

*Concerning the Service*

*The death of a member of the Church should be reported as soon as 
possible to, and arrangements for the funeral should be made in 
consultation with, the Minister of the Congregation.*

*Baptized Christians are properly buried from the church.  The service 
should be held at a time when the congregation has opportunity to be 
present.*

*The coffin is to be closed before the service, and it remains closed 
thereafter.  It is appropriate that it be covered with a pall or other 
suitable covering.*

*If necessary, or if desired, all or part of the service of Committal 
may be said in the church.  If preferred, the Committal service may take 
place before the service in the church.  It may also be used prior to 
cremation.*

*A priest normally presides at the service.  It is appropriate that the 
bishop, when present, preside at the Eucharist and pronounce the 
Commendation.*

*It is desirable that the Lesson from the Old Testament, and the 
Epistle, be read by lay persons.*

*When the services of a priest cannot be obtained, a deacon or lay 
reader may preside at the service.*

*At the burial of a child, the passages from Lamentations, 1 John, and 
John 6, together with Psalm 23, are recommended.*

*It is customary that the celebrant meet the body and go before it into 
the church or towards the grave.*

*The anthems at the beginning of the service are sung or said as the 
body is borne into the church, or during the entrance of the ministers, 
or by the celebrant standing in the accustomed place.*

<page 469>



<The Burial of the Dead:
Rite One>

*All stand while one or more of the following anthems are sung or said*

I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord;
he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live;
and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.

I know that my Redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth;
and though this body be destroyed, yet shall I see God;
whom I shall see for myself and mine eyes shall behold,
and not as a stranger.

For none of us liveth to himself,
and no man dieth to himself.
For if we live, we live unto the Lord.
and if we die, we die unto the Lord.
Whether we live, therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.

Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord;
even so saith the Spirit, for they rest from their labors.


*The Celebrant says one of the following Collects, first saying*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And with thy spirit.

*Celebrant* Let us pray.

<page 470>

=At the Burial of an Adult=

O God, whose mercies cannot be numbered:  Accept our
prayers on behalf of thy servant &N., and grant =him= an
entrance into the land of light and joy, in the fellowship of
thy saints; through Jesus Crhist thy Son our Lord, who liveth
and reigneth with thee and the Holy Spirit, on God, now
and for ever.  =Amen.=


=At the Burial of a Child=

O God, whose beloved Son did take little children into his
arms and bless them:  Give us grace, we beseech thee, to
entrust this child &N. to thy never-failing care and love, and
bring us all to thy heavenly kingdom; through the same thy
Son Jesus Christ our Lord, who liveth and reigneth with thee
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The people sit*

*One or more of the following passages from Holy Scripture is read.  If
there is to be a Communion, a passage from the Gospel always
concludes the Readings.*


<From the Old Testament>

  Isaiah 25:6-9 (He will swallow up death in victory)

  Isaiah 61:1-3 (To comfort all that mourn)

  Lamentations 3:22-26, 31-33 (The Lord is good unto them
that wait for him)

  Wisdom 3:1-5,9 (The souls of the righteous are in the hand of God)

  Job 19:21-27a (I know that my Redeemer liveth)


*After the Old Testament Lesson, a suitable canticle or one of the 
following Psalms may be sung or said.*

<page 471>


<Psalm 42>  =Quemadmodum=

Like as the hart desireth the water-brooks, *
 so longeth my soul after thee, O God.

My soul is athirst for God, yea, even for the living God; *
 when shall I come to appear before the presence of God?

My tears have been my meat day and night, *
 while they daily say unto me, Where is now thy God?

Now when I think thereupon, I pour out my heart by myself; *
 for I went with the multitude, and brought them forth into
/the house of God;

Why art thou so full of heaviness, O my soul? *
 and why art thou so disquieted within me?

O put thy trust in God; *
 for I will yet thank him, which is the help of my
/countenance, and my God.


<Psalm 46>  =Deus noster refugium=

God is our hope and strength, *
 a very present help in trouble.

Therefore will we not fear, though the earth be moved, *
 and though the hills be carried into the midst of the sea;

Though the waters thereof rage and swell, *
 and though the mountains shake at the tempest of the same.

There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God, *
 the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most Highest.

<page 472>

God is in the midst of her,
therefore shall she not be removed; *
 God shall help her, and that right early.

Be still then, and know that I am God; *
 I will be exalted among the nations,
 and I will be exalted in the earth.

The LORD of hosts is with us; *
 the God of Jacob is our refuge.


<Psalm 90>  =Domino, refugium=

LORD, thou hast been our refuge, *
 from one generation to another.

Before the mountains were brought forth,
or ever the earth and the world were made, *
 thou art God from everlasting, and the world without end.

Thou turnest man to destruction; *
 again thou sayest, Come again, ye children of men.

For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday
/when it is past, *
 and as a watch in the night.

As soon as thou scatterest them they are even as a sleep, *
 and fade away suddenly like the grass.

In the morning it is green, and groweth up; *
 but in the evening it is cut down, dried up, and withered.

For we consume away in thy displeasure, *
 and are afraid at thy wrathful indignation.

Thou hast set our misdeeds before thee, *
 and our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.

<page 473>

For when thou are angry all our days are gone; *
 we bring our years to an end, as it were a tale that is told.

The days of our age are threescore years and ten;
and though men be so strong that thy come to fourscore years, *
 yet is their strength then but labor and sorrow,
 so soon passeth it away, and we are gone.

So teach us to number our days, *
 that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.


<Psalm 121>  =Levavi oculos=

I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills; *
 from whence cometh my help?

My help cometh even from the LORD, *
 who hath made heaven and earth.

He will not suffer thy foot to be moved, *
 and he that keepeth thee will not sleep.

Behold, he that keepeth Israel *
 shall neither slumber nor sleep.

The LORD himself is thy keeper; *
 the LORD is thy defence upon thy right hand;

So that the sun shall not burn by day, *
 neither the moon by night.

The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil; *
 yea, it is even he that shall keep thy soul.

The LORD shall preserve thy going out, and thy coming in, *
 from this time forth for evermore.

<page 474>


<Psalm 130>  =De profundis=

Out of the deep have I called unto thee, O LORD; *
 Lord, hear my voice.

O let thine ears consider well *
 the voice of my complaint.

If thou, LORD, wilt be extreme to mark what is done amiss, *
 O Lord, who may abide it?

Fore there is mercy with thee, *
 therefore shalt thou be feared.

I look for the LORD; my soul doth wait for him; *
 in his word is my trust.

My soul fleeth unto the Lord before the morning watch; *
 I say, before the morning watch.

O Israel, trust in the LORD, 
for with the LORD there is mercy, *
 and with him is plenteous redemption.

And he shall redeem Israel *
 from all his sins.


<Psalm 139>  =Domine, probasti=

O LORD, thou hast searched me out, and known me. *
 Thou knowest my down-sitting and mine up-rising;
 thou understandest my thoughts long before.

Thou art about my path, and about my bed, *
 and art acquainted with all my ways.

For lo, there is not a word in my tongue, *
 but thou, O LORD, knowest it altogether.

<page 475>

Thou hast beset me behind and before, *
 and laid thine hand upon me.

Such knowledge is too wonderful and excellent for me; *
 I cannot attain unto it.

Whither shall I go then from thy Spirit? *
 or whither shall I go then from thy presence?

If I climb up into heaven, thou art there; *
 if I go down to hell, thou art there also.

If I take the wings of the morning, *
 and remain in the uttermost parts of the sea;

Even there also shall thy hand lead me, *
 and thy right hand shall hold me.

If I say, Peradventure the darkness shall cover me, *
 then shall my night be turned to day.

Yea, the darkness is no darkness with thee, 
but the night is as clear as day; *
 the darkness and light to thee are both alike.


<From the New Testament>

  Romans 8:14-19, 34-35, 37-39 (The glory that shall be revealed)

  1 Corinthians 15:20-26, 35-38, 42-44, 53-58 (Raised in incorruption)

  2 Corinthians 4:16-5:9 (Things which are not seen are eternal)

  1 John 3:1-2 (We shall be like him)

  Revelation 7:9-17 (God shall wipe away all tears)

  Revelation 21:2-7 (Behold, I make all things new)


*After the New Testament Lesson, a suitable canticle or hymn, or one of 
the following Psalms may be sung or said*

<Page 476>


<Psalm 23>  =Dominus regit me=

The LORD is my shepherd; *
 therefore can I lack nothing.

He shall feed me in a green pasture, *
 and lead me forth in the paths of righteousness for his
/Name's sake.

Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil; *
 for thou art with me;
 thy rod and thy staff comfort me.

Thou shalt prepare a table before me in the presence of them
/that trouble me; *
 thou hast anointed my head with oil,
 and my cup shall be full.

Surely thy loving-kindness and mercy shall follow me all the
/days of my life; *
 and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.


<Psalm 23>  =King James Version=

The LORD is my shepherd; *
 I shall not want.

He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; *
 he leadeth me beside the still waters.

He restoreth my soul; *
 he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his
/Name's sake.

<page 477>

Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil; *
 for thou are with me;
 thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.

Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of
/mine enemies; *
 thou annointest my head with oil;
 my cup runneth over.

Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days 
/of my life, *
 and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.


<Psalm 27>  =Dominus illuminatio=

The LORD is my light and my salvation;
whom then shall I fear? *
 the LORD is the strength of my life;
 of whom then shall I be afraid?

One thing have I desired of the LORD, which I will require, *
 even that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the
/days of my life,
 to behold the fair beauty of the LORD, and to visit his temple.

For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his tabernacle; *
 yea, in the secret place of his dwelling shall he hide me,
 and set me up upon a rock of stone.

And now shall he lift up mine head *
 above mine enemies round about me.

Therefore will I offer in his dwelling an oblation with
/great gladness; *
 I will sing and speak praises unto the LORD.

Hearken unto my voice, O LORD, when I cry unto thee; *
 have mercy upon me, and hear me.

<page 478>

My heart hath talked of thee, Seek ye my face. *
  Thy face, LORD, will I seek.

O hide not thou thy face from me, *
 nor cast thy servant away in displeasure.

I should utterly have fainted, *
 but that I believe verily to see the goodness of the LORD in
/the land of the living.

O tarry thou the LORD's leisure; *
 be strong, and he shall comfort thine heart;
 and put thou thy trust in the LORD.


<Psalm 106>  =Confitemini Domino=

O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is gracious, *
 and his mercy endureth for ever.

Who can express the noble acts of the LORD, *
 or show forth all his praise?

Blessed are they that alway keep judgment, *
 and do righteousness.

Remember me, O LORD, according to the favor that thou
/bearest unto thy people; *
 O visit me with thy salvation.

That I may see the felicity of thy chosen, *
 and rejoice in the gladness of thy people,
 and give thanks with thine inheritance.


<Psalm 116>  =Dilexi, quoniam=

My delight is in the LORD, *
 because he hath heard the voice of my prayer;

<page 479>

Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, *
 therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.

The snares of death compassed me round about, *
 and the pains of hell gat hold upon me.

I found trouble and heaviness;
then called I upon the Name of the LORD; *
 O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.

Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; *
 yea, our God is merciful.

The LORD preserveth the simple; *
 I was in misery, and he helped me.

Turn again then unto thy rest, O my soul, *
 for the LORD hath rewarded thee.

And why?  thou hast delivered my soul from death, *
 mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.

I will walk before the LORD *
 in the land of the living.

I will pay my vows now in the presence of all his people; *
 right dear in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.


<The Gospel>

*Then, all standing, the Deacon or Minister appointed reads the Gospel,
first saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ
according to John.

*People*  Glory be to thee, O Lord.

<page 480>

  John 5:24-27  (He that believeth hath everlasting life)

  John 6:37-40  (All that the Father giveth me shall come to me)
 
  John 10:11-16  (I am the good shepherd)

  John  11:21-27  (I am the resurrection and the life)

  John 14:1-6  (In my Father's house are many mansions)


*At the end of the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise be to thee, O Christ.


*A homily may be preached, the people being seated.*

*The Apostle's creed may be said, all standing*

*If there is not to be a Communion, the Lord's Prayer is said here, and 
the service continues with the following prayer of intercession, or with 
one or more suitable prayers (see pages 487-489).*

*When there is a Communion, the following serves for the Prayers of the 
People.*


*The People respond to every petition with Amen.*

*The Deacon or other leader says*

In peace, let us pray to the Lord.

Almighty God, who hast knit together thine elect in one
communion and fellowship, in the mystical body of thy Son
Christ our Lord:  Grant, we beseech thee, to thy whole
Church in paradise and on earth, thy light and thy peace.
=Amen.=

Grant that all who have been baptized into Christ's death and
resurrection may die to sin and rise to newness of life, and
that through the grave and gate of death we may pass with
him to our joyful resurrection.  =Amen.=

<page 481>

Grant to us who are still in our pilgrimage, and who walk as
yet by faith, that thy Holy Spirit may lead us in holiness and
righteousness all our days.  =Amen.=

Grant to thy faithful people pardon and peace, that we may
be cleansed from all our sins, and serve thee with a quiet
mind.  =Amen.=

Grant to all who mourn a sure confidence in thy fatherly
care, that, casting all their grief on thee, they may know the
consolation of thy love.  =Amen.=

[[Give courage and faith to those who are bereaved, that they
may have strength to meet the days ahead in the comfort of a
reasonable and holy hope, in the joyful expectation of eternal
life with those they love.  =Amen.=.]]

[[Help us, we pray, in the midst of things we cannot understand,
to believe and trust in the communion of saints, the forgiveness
of sins, and the resurrection to life everlasting.  =Amen.=]]

[[Grant us grace to entrust &N. to thy never-failing love; receive
=him= into the arms of thy mercy, and remember =him= according
to the favor which thou bearest unto thy people.  =Amen.=]]

[[Grant that, increasing in knowledge and love of thee, =he= may
go from strength to strength in the life of perfect service in
thy heavenly kingdom.  =Amen.=]]

Grant us, with all who have died in the hope of the
resurrection, to have our consummation and bliss in thy
eternal and everlasting glory, and, with [blessed &N. and]
all thy saints, to receive the crown of life which thou dost
promise to all who share in the victory of thy Son Jesus
Christ; who liveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy
Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*When there is no Communion, the service continues with the
Commendation, or with the Commital.*

<page 482>


<At the Eucharist>

*The service continues with the Peace and the Offertory.*

=Preface of the Commemoration of the Dead=

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, the following is said*

Almighty God, we thank thee that in thy great love thou hast 
fed us with the spiritual food and drink of the Body and 
Blood of thy Son Jesus Christ, and hast given unto us a
foretaste of thy heavenly banquet.  Grant that this Sacrament
may be unto us a comfort in affliction, and a pledge of our
inheritance in that kingdom where there is no death, neither
sorrow nor crying, but the fullness of joy with all thy saints;
through Jesus Christ our Savior.  =Amen.=

*If the body is not present, the service continues with the [blessing 
and] dismissal.*

*Unless the Committal follows immediately in the church, the following 
Commendation is used.*


<The Commendation>

*The Celebrant and other ministers take their places at the body.*

*This anthem, or some other suitable anthem, or a hymn, may be sung or
said*

Give rest, O Christ, to thy servant(s) with thy saints,
=where sorrow and pain are no more,
neither sighing, but life everlasting.=

Thou only art immortal, the creator and maker of mankind;
and we are mortal, formed of the earth, and unto earth shall
we return.  For so thou didst ordain when thou createdst me,
saying, "Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return."  All
<page 483>
we go down to the dust; yet even at the grave we make
our song:  Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia.

=Give rest, O Christ, to thy servant(s) with thy saints,
where sorrow and pain are no more,
neither sighing, but life everlasting.=


*The Celebrant, facing the body, says*

Into thy hands, O merciful Savior, we commend thy servant
&N.  Acknowledge, we humbly beseech thee, a sheep of thine
own fold, a lamb of thine own flock, a sinner of thine own
redeeming.  Receive =him= into the arms of thy mercy, into the
blessed rest of everlasting peace, and into the glorious
company of the saints in light.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant, or the Bishop if present, may then bless the people, and 
a Deacon or other Minister may dismiss them, saying*

Let us go forth in the name of Christ.
=Thanks be to God.=


*As the body is borne from the church, a hymn, or one or more of these
anthems may be sung or said*

Christ is risen from the dead, trampling down death by death,
and giving life to those in the tomb.

The Sun of Righteousness is gloriously risen, giving light to
those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death.

The Lord will guide our feet into the way of peace, having
taken away the sin of the world.

Christ will open the kingdom of heaven to all who believe in
his Name, saying, Come, O blessed of my Father; inherit the
kingdom prepared for you.

<page 484>

Into paradise may the angels lead thee; and at thy coming
may the martyrs receive thee, and bring thee into the holy
city Jerusalem.

*or one of these Canticles*

  The Song of Zechariah, =Benedictus=

  The Song of Simeon, =Nunc dimittis=

  Christ our Passover, =Pascha nostrum=


<The Committal>

*The following anthem is sung or said*

In the midst of life we are in death;
of whom may we seek for succor,
but of thee, O Lord,
who for our sins art justly displeased?

Yet, O Lord God most holy, O Lord most mighty,
O holy and most merciful Savior,
deliver us not into the bitter pains of eternal death.

Thou knowest, Lord, the secrets of our hearts;
shut not thy merciful ears to our prayer;
but spare us, Lord most holy, O God most mighty,
O holy and merciful Savior,
thou most worthy Judge eternal.
Suffer us not, at our last hour,
through any pains of death, to fall from thee.

*or this*

All that the Father giveth me shall come to me;
and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.

<page 485>

He that raised up Jesus from the dead
will also give life to our mortal bodies,
by his Spirit that dwelleth in us.

Wherefore my heart is glad, and my spirit rejoiceth;
my flesh also shall rest in hope.

Thou shalt show me the path of life;
in thy presence is the fullness of joy,
and at thy right hand there is pleasure for evermore.


*Then, while earth is cast upon the coffin, the Celebrant says these 
words*

In sure and certain hope of the resurrection to eternal life
through our Lord Jesus Christ, we commend to Almighty
God our =brother= &N.; and we commit =his= body to the ground;**
earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust.  The Lord bless
=him= and keep =him=, the Lord make his face to shine upon =him=
and be gracious unto =him=, the Lord lift up his countenance
upon =him= and give =him= peace.  =Amen.=

  ** *Or* the deep, *or* the elements, *or* its resting place.


*The Celebrant says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And with thy spirit.

*Celebrant*  Let us pray.


*Celebrant and People*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
  on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
<page 486>
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


*Then the Celebrant may say*

O Almighty God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, who by a
voice from heaven didst proclaim, Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord:  Multiply, we beseech thee, to those who rest
in Jesus the manifold blessings of thy love, that the good
work which thou didst begin in them may be made perfect
unto the day of Jesus Christ.  And of thy mercy, O heavenly
Father, grant that we, who now serve thee on earth, may at
last, together with them, be partakers of the inheritance of
the saints in light; for the sake of thy Son Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=


*In place of this prayer, or in addition to it, the Celebrant may use 
any of the Additional Prayers.*


*Then may be said*

Rest eternal grant to =him=, O Lord:
=And let light perpetual shine upon *him*.=

May =his= soul, and the souls of all the departed,
through the mercy of God, rest in peace.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant dismisses the people with these words*

The God of peace, who brought again from the dead our
Lord Jesus Christ, the great Shepherd of the sheep, through
<page 487>
the blood of the everlasting covenant:  Make you perfect in
every good work to do his will, working in you that which is
well pleasing in his sight; through Jesus Christ, to whom be
glory for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Consecration of a Grave>

*If the grave is in a place that has not previously been set apart for
Christian burial, the Priest may use the following prayer, either before
the service of Committal or at some other convenient time.*

O God, whose blessed Son was laid in a sepulcher in the
garden:  Bless, we pray, this grave, and grant that =he= whose
body is (is to be) buried here may dwell with Christ in 
paradise, and may come to thy heavenly kingdom; through
thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Additional Prayers>

Almighty and everliving God, we yield unto thee most high
praise and hearty thanks for the wonderful grace and virtue
declared in all thy saints, who have been the choice vessels
of thy grace, and the lights of the world in their several
generations; most humbly beseeching thee to give us grace so
to follow the example of their steadfastness in thy faith, and
obedience to thy holy commandments, that at the day of the
general resurrection, we, with all those who are of the
mystical body of thy Son, may be set on his right hand, and
hear that his most joyful voice:  "Come, ye blessed of my
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world."  Grant this, O Father, for the sake
of the same thy Son Jesus Christ, our only Mediator and
Advocate.  =Amen.=

<page 488>

Almighty God, with whom do live the spirits of those who
depart hence in the Lord, and with whom the souls of the 
faithful, after they are delivered from the burden of the flesh,
are in joy and felicity:  We give thee hearty thanks for the
good examples of all those thy servants, who, having finished
their course in faith, do now rest from their labors.  And we
beseech thee that we, with all those who are departed in
the true faith of thy holy Name, may have our perfect
consummation and bliss, both in body and soul, in thy
eternal and everlasting glory; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=

Into thy hands, O Lord, we commend thy servant &N., our
dear =brother=, as into the hands of a faithful Creator and most
merciful Savior, beseeching thee that =he= may be precious in
thy sight.  Wash =him=, we pray thee, in the blood of that
immaculate Lamb that was slain to take away the sins of the
world; that, whatsoever defilements =he= may have contracted
in the midst of this earthly life being purged and done away,
=he= may be presented pure and without spot before thee;
through the merits of Jesus Christ thine only Son our Lord.
=Amen.=

Remember thy servant, O Lord, according to the favor which
thou bearest unto thy people; and grant that, increasing in
knowledge and love of thee, =he= may go from strength to
strength in the life of perfect service in thy heavenly kingdom;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

Almighty God, our heavenly Father, in whose hands are the
living and the dead:  We give thee thanks for all thy servants
who have laid down their lives in the service of our country.
Grant to them thy mercy and the light of thy presence; and
give us such a lively sense of thy righteous will, that the work
<page 489>
which thou hast begun in them may be perfected; through
Jesus Christ thy Son our Lord.  =Amen.=

O God, whose days are without end, and whose mercies
cannot be numbered:  Make us, we beseech thee, deeply
sensible of the shortness and uncertainty of life; and let thy
Holy Spirit lead us in holiness and righteousness all our days;
that, when we shall have served thee in our generation, we
may be gathered unto our fathers, having the testimony of a
good conscience; in the communion of the Catholic Church;
in the confidence of a certain faith; in the comfort of a
reasonable, religious, and holy hope; in favor with thee our
God; and in perfect charity with the world.  All which we ask
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

O God, the King of saints, we praise and magnify thy holy
Name for all thy servants who have finished their course in
thy faith and fear; for the blessed Virgin Mary; for the holy
patriarchs, prophets, apostles, and martyrs; and for all other
thy righteous servants, known to us and unknown; and we
beseech thee that, encouraged by their examples, aided by
their prayers, and strengthened by their fellowship, we also
may be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light;
through the merits of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

O Lord Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, we pray thee to
set thy passion, cross, and death, between thy judgment and
our souls, now and in the hour of our death.  Give mercy and
grace to the living, pardon and rest to the dead, to thy holy
Church peace and concord, and to us sinners everlasting life
and glory; who with the Father and the Holy Spirit livest and 
reignest, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

Almighty God, Father of mercies and giver of comfort:
Deal graciously, we pray thee, with all those who mourn, that
casting every care on thee, they may know the consolation of
thy love; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 490>


*Concerning the Service*

*The death of a member of the Church should be reported as soon as 
possible to, and arrangements for the funeral should be made in 
consultation with, the Minister of the Congregation.*

*Baptized Christians are properly buried from the church.  The service 
should be held at a time when the congregation has opportunity to be 
present.*

*The coffin is to be closed before the service, and it remains closed 
thereafter.  It is appropriate that it be covered with a pall or other 
suitable covering.*

*If necessary, or if desired, all or part of the service of Committal 
may be said in the church.  If preferred, the Committal service may take 
place before the service in the church.  It may also be used prior to 
cremation.*

*A priest normally presides at the service.  It is appropriate that the 
bishop, when present, preside at the Eucharist and pronounce the 
Commendation.*

*It is desirable that the Lesson from the Old Testament, and the 
Epistle, be read by lay persons.*

*When the services of a priest cannot be obtained, a deacon or lay 
reader may preside at the service.*

*At the burial of a child, the passages from Lamentations, 1 John, and 
John 6, together with Psalm 23, are recommended.*

*It is customary that the celebrant meet the body and go before it into 
the church or towards the grave.*

*The anthems at the beginning of the service are sung or said as the 
body is borne into the church, or during the entrance of the ministers, 
or by the celebrant standing in the accustomed place.*

<page 491>


<The Burial of the Dead:
Rite Two>

*All stand while one or more of the following anthems is sung or said. A 
hymn, psalm, or some other suitable anthem may be sung instead.*

I am Resurrection and I am Life, says the Lord.
Whoever has faith in me shall have life,
even though he die.
And everyone who has life,
and has committed himself to me in faith,
shall not die for ever.

As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives
and that at the last he will stand upon the earth. 
After my awaking, he will raise me up;
and in my body I shall see God.
I myself shall see, and my eyes behold him
who is my friend and not a stranger.

For none of us has life in himself,
and none becomes his own master when he dies. 
For if we have life, we are alive in the Lord, 
and if we die, we die in the Lord.
So, then, whether we live or die,
we are the Lord's possession.

<page 492>

Happy from now on
are those who die in the Lord!
So it is, says the Spirit,
for they rest from their labors.

*Or else this anthem*

In the midst of life we are in death;
from whom can we seek help?
From you alone, O Lord,
who by our sins are justly angered.

=Holy God, Holy and Mighty,
Holy and merciful Savior,
deliver us not into the bitterness of eternal death.=

Lord, you know the secrets of our hearts;
shut not your ears to our prayers,
but spare us, O Lord.

=Holy God, Holy and Mighty,
Holy and merciful Savior,
deliver us not into the bitterness of eternal death.=

O worthy and eternal Judge,
do not let the pains of death
turn us away from you at our last hour.

=Holy God, Holy and Mighty,
Holy and merciful Savior,
deliver us not into the bitterness of eternal death.=

*When all are in place, the Celebrant may address the congregation, 
acknowledging briefly the purpose of the gathering, and bidding their 
prayers for the deceased and the bereaved.*

<page 493>

*The Celebrant then says* 

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant* Let us pray.


*Silence may be kept; after which the Celebrant says one of the
following Collects*


=At the Burial of an Adult=

O God, who by the glorious resurrection of your Son Jesus 
Christ destroyed death, and brought life and immortality to 
light: Grant that your servant &N., being raised with him, may 
know the strength of his presence, and rejoice in his eternal 
glory; who with you and the Holy Spirit lives and reigns, one God, for 
ever and ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God, whose mercies cannot be numbered: Accept our 
prayers on behalf of your servant &N., and grant =him= an 
entrance into the land of light and joy, in the fellowship of 
your saints; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and 
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for 
ever.  =Amen.=

*or this*

O God of grace and glory, we remember before you this day 
our brother (sister) &N.  We thank you for giving =him= to us, =his= 
family and friends, to know and to love as a companion on 
our earthly pilgrimage. In your boundless compassion, 
console us who mourn.  Give us faith to see in death the gate 
of eternal life, so that in quiet confidence we may continue 
our course on earth, until, by your call, we are reunited with 
those who have gone before; through Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=

<page 494>


=At the Burial of a Child=

O God, whose beloved Son took children into his arms and 
blessed them: Give us grace to entrust &N. to your never-
failing care and love, and bring us all to your heavenly 
kingdom; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and 
reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for 
ever.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant may add the following prayer*

Most merciful God, whose wisdom is beyond our 
understanding: Deal graciously with &N.&N. in =their= grief.  
Surround =them= with you love, that =they= may not be 
overwhelmed by their loss, but have confidence in your 
goodness, and strength to meet the days to come; through 
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*The people sit.*

*One or more of the following passages from Holy Scripture is read. If 
there is to be a Communion, a passage from the Gospel always concludes 
the Readings.*


<The Liturgy of the Word>

*From the Old Testament*

  Isaiah 25:6-9    (He will swallow up death for ever)

  Isaiah 61:1-3    (To comfort those who mourn)

  Lamentations 3:22-26,31-33    (The Lord is good to those who wait for 
him) 

  Wisdom 3:1-5,9    (The souls of the righteous are in the hands of God) 
  
  Job 19:21-27a    (I know that my Redeemer lives)

*A suitable psalm, hymn, or canticle may follow.  The following Psalms 
are appropriate: 42:1-7, 46, 90:1-12, 121, 130, 139:1-11.*

<page 495>

*From the New Testament*

  Romans 8:14-19,34-35,37-39    (The glory that shall be revealed) 1

  Corinthians 15:2-26,35-38,42-44,53-58    (The imperishable body)

  2 Corinthians 4:16--5:9    (Things that are unseen are eternal)

  1 John 3:1-2    (We shall be like him)

  Revelation 7:9-17    (God will wipe away every tear)

  Revelation 21:2-7    (Behold, I make all things new)


*A suitable psalm, hymn, or canticle may follow.  The following Psalms
are appropriate: 23, 27, 106:1-5, 116.*


*The Gospel*

*Then, all standing, the Deacon or Minister appointed reads the Gospel, 
first saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to John. 

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

  John 5:24-27    (He who believes has everlasting life)

  John 6:37-40    (All that the Father gives me will come to you)

  John 10:11-16    (I am the good shepherd)

  John 11:21-27    (I am the resurrection and the life)

  John 14:1-6    (In my Father's house are many rooms)


*At the end of the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.

*Here there may be a homily by the Celebrant, or a member of the family, 
or a friend.*

<page 496>

*The Apostles' Creed may then be said, all standing.  The Celebrant may 
introduce the Creed with these or similar words*

In the assurance of eternal life given at Baptism, let us 
proclaim our faith and say,


*Celebrant and People*

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
 creator of heaven and earth.

I believe in Jesus Christ, his only Son, our Lord.
 He was conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit
  and born of the Virgin Mary.
 He suffered under Pontius Pilate,
 was crucified, died, and was buried.
 He descended to the dead.
 On the third day he rose again.
 He ascended into heaven,
  and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
 He will come again to judge the living and the dead.

I believe in the Holy Spirit,
 the holy catholic Church,
 the communion of saints,
 the forgiveness of sins,
 the resurrection of the body,
 and the life everlasting.  Amen.

*If there is not to be a Communion, the Lord's Prayer is said here, and 
the service continues with the Prayers of the People, or with one or 
more suitable prayers (see pages 503-505).*

*When there is a Communion, the following form of the Prayers of the 
People is used, or else the form on page 465 or 480.*

<page 497>

For our brother (sister) &N., let us pray to our Lord Jesus 
Christ who said, I am Resurrection and I am Life."

Lord, you consoled Martha and Mary in their distress; draw 
near to us who mourn for &N., and dry the tears of those who 
weep.
=Hear us, Lord.=

You wept at the grave of Lazarus, your friend; comfort us in
our sorrow.
=Hear us, Lord.=

You raised the dead to life; give to our brother (sister) eternal 
life.
=Hear us, Lord.=

You promised paradise to the thief who repented; bring our
brother (sister) to the joys of heaven.
=Hear us, Lord.=

[[Our brother (sister) was washed in Baptism and anointed 
with the Holy Spirit; give him fellowship with all your saints.
=Hear us, Lord.=]]

[[He was nourished with your Body and Blood; grant =him= a 
place at the table in your heavenly kingdom.
=Hear us, Lord.=]]

Comfort us in our sorrows at the death of our brother 
(sister); let our faith be our consolation, and eternal life our 
hope.

*Silence may be kept.*

*The Celebrant concludes with one of the following or some other prayer*

<page 498>

Lord Jesus Christ, we commend to you our brother (sister) 
&N., who was reborn by water and the Spirit in Holy Baptism.  
Grant that =his= death may recall to us your victory over death, 
and be an occasion for us to renew our trust in your Father's 
love.  Give us, we pray, the faith to follow where you have led 
the way; and where you live and reign with the Father and the Holy 
Spirit, to the ages of ages.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Father of all, we pray to you for &N., and for all those whom 
we love but see no longer.  Grant to them eternal rest.  Let 
light perpetual shine upon them.  May =his= soul and the souls 
of all the departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace.  
=Amen.=

*When there is no Communion, the service continues with the 
Commendation, or with the Committal.*


<At the Eucharist>

*The service continues with the Peace and the Offertory*


=Preface of the Commemoration of the Dead=

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, the following is said*

Almighty God, we thank you that in your great love you have 
fed us with the spiritual food and drink of the Body and 
Blood of your Son Jesus Christ, and have given us a foretaste 
of your heavenly banquet. Grant that this Sacrament may be 
to us a comfort in affliction, and a pledge of our inheritance 
in that kingdom where there is no death, neither sorrow nor 
crying, but the fullness of joy with all your saints; through 
Jesus Christ our Savior.  =Amen.=

<page 499>

*If the body is not present, the service continues with the [blessing 
and] dismissal.*

*Unless the Committal follows immediately in the church, the following 
Commendation is used.*


<The Commendation>

*The Celebrant and other ministers take their places at the body.*

*This anthem, or some other suitable anthem, or a hymn, may be sung or 
said*

Give rest, O Christ, to your servant(s) with your saints,
=where sorrow and pain are no more,
neither sighing, but life everlasting.=

You only are immortal, the creator and maker of mankind; 
and we are mortal, formed of the earth, and to earth shall we 
return.  For so did you ordain when you created me, saying, 
"You are dust, and to dust you shall return."  All of us go down 
to the dust; yet even at the grave we make our song: Alleluia, 
alleluia, alleluia.

=Give rest, O Christ, to your servant(s) with your saints,
where sorrow and pain are no more,
neither sighing, but life everlasting.=


*The Celebrant, facing the body, says*

Into your hands, O merciful Savior, we commend your 
servant &N. Acknowledge, we humbly beseech you, a sheep of 
your own fold, a lamb of your own flock, a sinner of your 
own redeeming.  Receive =him= into the arms of your mercy, 
into the blessed rest of everlasting peace, and into the 
glorious company of the saints in light.  =Amen.=

<page 500>

*The Celebrant, or the Bishop if present, may then bless the people, and 
a Deacon or other Minister may dismiss them, saying*

Let us go forth in the name of Christ.
=Thanks be to God.=

*As the body is borne from the church, a hymn, or one or more of these 
anthems may be sung or said.*

Christ is risen from the dead, trampling down death by death, 
and giving life to those in the tomb.

The Sun of Righteousness is gloriously risen, giving light to 
those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death.

The Lord will guide our feet into the way of peace, having 
taken away the sin of the world.

Christ will open the kingdom of heaven to all who believe in 
his Name, saying, Come, O blessed of my Father; inherit the 
kingdom prepared for you.

Into paradise may the angels lead you.  At your coming may 
the martyrs receive you, and bring you into the holy city 
Jerusalem.

*or one of these Canticles,*

  The Song of Zechariah, Benedictus

  The Song of Simeon, Nunc dimittis

  Christ our Passover, Pascha nostrum

<age 501>


<The Committal>

*The following anthem or one of those on pages 491-492 is sung or said*

Everyone the Father gives to me will come to me;
I will never turn away anyone who believes in me.

He who raised Jesus Christ from the dead
will also give new life to our mortal bodies
through his indwelling Spirit.

My heart, therefore, is glad, and my spirit rejoices;
my body also shall rest in hope.

You will show me the path of life;
in your presence there is fullness of joy,
and in your right hand are pleasures for evermore.

*Then, while earth is cast on upon the coffin, the Celebrant says these 
words*

In sure and certain hope of the resurrection to eternal life 
through our Lord Jesus Christ, we commend to Almighty 
God our =brother= &N., and we commit =his= body to the ground;**
earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust.  The Lord bless 
=him= and keep =him=, the Lord make his face to shine upon =him= 
and be gracious to =him=, the Lord lift up his countenance upon 
=him= and give =him= peace.  =Amen.=

  ** *Or* the deep, *or* the elements, *or* its resting place.


*The Celebrant says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Celebrant*  Let us pray.

<page 502>

*People and Celebrant*

Our Father, who art in heaven,
 hallowed be thy Name,
 thy kingdom come,
 thy will be done,
/on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our trespasses,
 as we forgive those
/who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation,
 but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom,
 and the power, and the glory,
 for ever and ever.  Amen.

<parallel column>

Our Father in heaven,
 hallowed be your Name,
 your kingdom come,
 your will be done,
/on earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
 as we forgive those
/who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
 and deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
 and the glory are yours,
 now and for ever.  Amen.


*Then may be said*

Rest eternal grant to him, O Lord;
=And let light perpetual shine upon him.=

May his soul, and the souls of all the departed,
through the mercy of God, rest in peace.  =Amen.=


*The Celebrant dismisses the people with these words*

Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia. 

*Celebrant*  Let us go forth in the name of Christ. 

*People*     Thanks be to God.

*or with the following*

<page 503>

The God of peace, who brought again from the dead our 
Lord Jesus Christ, the great Shepherd of the sheep, through 
the blood of the eternal covenant: Make you perfect in 
every good work to do his will, working in you that which is 
well-pleasing in his sight; through Jesus Christ, to whom be 
glory for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Consecration of a Grave>

*If the grave is in a place that has not previously been set apart for 
Christian burial, the Priest may use the following prayer, either before 
the service of Committal or at some other time.*

O God, whose blessed Son was laid in a sepulcher in the 
garden: Bless, we pray, this grave, and grant that =he= whose 
body is (is to be) buried here may dwell with Christ in 
paradise, and may come to your heavenly kingdom; through 
your Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Additional Prayers>

Almighty God, with whom still live the spirits of those who 
die in the Lord, and with whom the souls of the faithful are in 
joy and felicity: We give you heartfelt thanks for the good 
examples of all your servants, who, having finished their 
course in faith, now find rest and refreshment.  May we, with 
all who have died in the true faith of your holy Name, have 
perfect fulfillment and bliss in your eternal and everlasting 
glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<age 504>

O God, whose days are without end, and whose mercies 
cannot be numbered: Make us, we pray, deeply aware of the 
shortness and uncertainty of human life; and let your Holy 
Spirit lead us in holiness and righteousness all our days; that, 
when we shall have served you in our generation, we may be 
gathered to our ancestors, having the testimony of a good 
conscience, in the communion of the Catholic Church, in the 
confidence of a certain faith, in the comfort of a religious and 
holy hope, in favor with you, our God, and in perfect charity 
with the world.  All this we ask through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=

O God, the King of saints, we praise and glorify your holy 
Name for all your servants who have finished their course in 
your faith and fear: for the blessed Virgin Mary; for the holy 
patriarchs, prophets, apostles, and martyrs; and for all your 
other righteous servants, known to us and unknown; and we 
pray that, encouraged by their examples, aided by their 
prayers, and strengthened by their fellowship, we also may 
be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light; through 
the merits of your Son Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=

Lord Jesus Christ, by your death you took away thy sting of 
death:  Grant to us your servants so to follow in faith where 
you have led the way, that we may at length fall asleep 
peacefully in you ad wake up in your likeness; for your 
tender mercies' sake.  =Amen.=

Father of all, we pray to you for those we love, but see no 
longer: Grant them your peace; let light perpetual shine upon 
them; and, in your loving wisdom and almighty power, work 
in them the good purpose of your perfect will; through Jesus 
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 505>

Merciful God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who is the 
Resurrection and the Life: Raise us, we humbly pray, from 
the death of sin to the life of righteousness; that when we 
depart this life we may rest in him, and at the resurrection 
receive that blessing which your well-beloved Son shall then 
pronounce: "Come, you blessed of my Father, receive the 
kingdom prepared for you from the beginning of the world."  
Grant this, O merciful Father, through Jesus Christ, our 
Mediator and Redeemer.  =Amen.=

Grant, O Lord, to all who are bereaved the spirit of faith and 
courage, that they may have strength to meet the days to 
come with steadfastness and patience; not sorrowing as those 
without hope, but in thankful remembrance of your great 
goodness, and in the joyful expectation of eternal life with 
those they love.  And this we ask in the Name of Jesus Christ 
our Savior.  =Amen.=

Almighty God, Father of mercies and giver of comfort: Deal 
graciously, we pray, with all who mourn; that, casting all 
their care on you, they may know the consolation of your 
love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. =Amen.=

<page 506>



<An Order for Burial>

*When, for pastoral considerations, neither of the burial rites in this 
Book is deemed appropriate, the following form is used.*

  1.  The body is received.  The celebrant may meet the body and conduct 
it into the church or chapel, or it may be in place before the 
congregation assembles.

  2.  Anthems from Holy Scripture or psalms may be sung or said, or a 
hymn may be sung.

  3.  Prayer may be offered for the bereaved.

  4.  One or more passages of Holy Scripture are read.  Psalms, hymns, 
or anthems may follow the readings.  If there is to be a Communion, the 
last Reading is from the Gospel.

  5.  A homily may follow the Readings, and the Apostles' Creed may be 
recited.

  6.  Prayer, including the Lord's Prayer, is offered for the deceased, 
for those who mourn, and for the Christian community, remembering the 
promises of God in Christ about eternal life.

  7.  The deceased is commended to God, and the body is committed to its 
resting place.  The committal may take place either where the preceding 
service has been held, or at the graveside.

  8.  If there is a Communion, it precedes the commendation, and begins 
with the Peace and Offertory of the Eucharist.  Any of the authorized 
eucharistic prayers may be used.

<page 507>


<Note:>

*The liturgy for the dead is an Easter liturgy.  It finds all meaning in 
the resurrection.  Because Jesus was raised from the dead, we too, shall 
be raised.*

*The liturgy, therefore, is characterized by joy, in the certainty that 
"neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things 
present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor 
anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love 
of God in Christ Jesus our Lord."*

*This joy, however, does not make human grief unchristian.  The very 
love we have for each other in Christ brings deep sorrow when we are 
parted by death.  Jesus himself wept at the grave of his friend.  So, 
while we rejoice that one we love has entered into the nearer presence 
of our Lord, we sorrow in sympathy with those who mourn.*


<page 509>

Episcopal Services

<page 510>

<Preface to the Ordination Rites>

*The Holy Scriptures and ancient Christian writers make it clear that 
from the apostles' time, there have been different ministries within the 
Church.  In particular, since the time of the New Testament, three 
distinct orders of ordained ministers have been characteristic of 
Christ's holy Catholic Church.  First, there is the order of bishops who 
carry on the apostolic work of leading, supervising, and uniting the 
Church.  Secondly, associated with them are the presbyters, or ordained 
elders, in subsequent times generally known as priests. Together with 
the bishops, they take part in the governance of the Church, in the 
carrying out of its missionary and pastoral work, and in the preaching 
of the Word of God and administering his holy Sacraments.  Thirdly, 
there are deacons who assist bishops and priests in all of this work.  
It is also a special responsibility of deacons to minister in Christ's 
name to the poor, the sick, the suffering, and the helpless.*

*The persons who are chosen and recognized by the Church as being called 
by God to the ordained ministry are admitted to these sacred orders by 
solemn prayer and the laying on of episcopal hands.  It has been, and 
is, the intention and purpose of this Church to maintain and continue 
these three orders; and for this purpose these services of ordination 
and consecration are appointed.  No persons are allowed to exercise the 
offices of bishop, priest, or deacon in this Church unless they are so 
ordained, or have already received such ordination with the laying on of 
hands by bishops who are themselves duly qualified to confer Holy 
Orders.*

*It is also recognized and affirmed that the threefold ministry is not 
the exclusive property of this portion of Christ's catholic Church, but 
is a gift from God for the nurture of his people and the proclamation of 
his Gospel everywhere.  Accordingly, the manner of ordaining in this 
Church is to be such as has been, and is, most generally recognized by 
Christian people as suitable for the conferring of the sacred orders of 
bishops, priest, and deacon.*

<page 511>

*Concerning the Ordination of a Bishop*

*In accordance with ancient custom, it is desirable, if possible, that 
bishops be ordained on Sundays and other feasts of our Lord or on the 
feasts of apostles or evangelists.*

*When a bishop is to be ordained, the Presiding Bishop of this Church, 
or a bishop appointed by the Presiding Bishop, presides and serves as 
chief consecrator.  At least two other bishops are co-consecrators. 
Representatives of the presbyterate, diaconate, and laity of the diocese 
for which the new bishop is to be consecrated, are assigned appropriate 
duties in the service.*

*From the beginning of the service until the Offertory, the chief 
consecrator presides from a chair placed close to the people, so that 
all may see and hear what is done.  The other bishops, or a convenient 
number of them, sit to the right and left of the chief consecrator.*

*The bishop-elect is vested in a rochet or alb, without stole, tippet, 
or other vesture distinctive of ecclesiastical or academic rank or 
order.*

*When the bishop-elect is presented, his full name (designated by the 
symbol &N.&N.) is used.  Thereafter, it is appropriate to refer to him 
only by the Christian name by which he wishes to be known.*

*At the Offertory, it is appropriate that the bread and wine be brought 
to the Altar by the family or friends of the newly ordained.*

*The family of the newly ordained may receive Communion before other 
members of the congregation.  Opportunity is always given to the people 
to communicate.*

*Additional Directions are on page 552.*

<page 512>



<The Ordination of a Bishop>

*Hymns, psalms, and anthems may be sung during the entrance of the 
bishops and other ministers.*


*The people standing, the Bishop appointed says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Bishop*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Bishop*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*The Bishop then says*

Almighty God, to you all hearts are open, all desires known, 
and from you no secrets are hid.  Cleanse the thoughts of our 
hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may 
perfectly love you, and worthily magnify your holy Name; 
through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 513>


<The Presentation>

*The bishops and people sit.  Representatives of the diocese, both 
Priests and Lay Persons, standing before the Presiding Bishop, present 
the bishop-elect, saying*

&N., Bishop in the Church of God, the clergy and people 
of the Diocese of &N., trusting in the guidance of the Holy Spirit, 
have chosen &N.&N. to be a bishop and chief pastor.  We therefore 
ask you to lay your hands upon =him= and in the power of the 
Holy Spirit to consecrate =him= a bishop in the one, holy, catholic, and 
apostolic Church.


*The Presiding Bishop then directs that the testimonials of the election 
be read.*


*When the reading of the testimonials is ended, the Presiding Bishop 
requires the following promise from the Bishop-elect*

In the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy 
Spirit, I, &N.&N., chosen Bishop of the Church in &N., solemnly 
declare that I do believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and 
New Testaments to be the Word of God, and to contain all
things necessary to salvation; and I do solemnly engage to 
conform to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of the 
Episcopal Church.

*The Bishop-elect then signs the above Declaration in the sight of all 
present.  The witnesses add their signatures.*

*All stand.*

*The Presiding Bishop then says the following, or similar words, and 
asks the response of the people*

<page 514>

Brothers and sisters in Christ Jesus, you have heard testimony 
given that &N.&N. has been duly and lawfully elected to be a 
bishop of the Church of God to serve in the Diocese of &N.  
You have been assured of =his= suitability and that the Church 
has approved him for this sacred responsibility.  Nevertheless, 
if any of you know any reason why we should not proceed, 
let it now be made known.

*If no objections are made, the Presiding Bishop continues*

Is it your will that we ordain &N. a bishop?


*The People respond in these or other words*

That is our will.


*Presiding Bishop*

Will you uphold &N. as bishop?


*The People respond in these or other words*

We will.


*The Presiding Bishop then says*

The Scriptures tell us that our Savior Christ spent the whole 
night in prayer before he chose and sent forth his twelve 
apostles.  Likewise, the apostles prayed before they appointed 
Matthias to be one of their number.  Let us, therefore, follow 
their examples, and offer our prayers to Almighty God before 
we ordain &N. for the work to which we trust the Holy Spirit 
has called =**him=.

<page 515>

*All kneel, and the Person appointed leads the Litany for Ordinations, 
or some other approved litany.  At the end of the litany, after the 
Kyries, the Presiding Bishop stands and reads the Collect for the Day, 
or the following Collect, or both, first saying*

The Lord be with you

*People*  And also with you.


Let us pray.

O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look 
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred 
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry 
out in tranquillity the plan of salvation; let the whole world 
see and know that things which were being cast down are being 
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made 
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection 
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Ministry of the Word>

*Three Lessons are read.  Lay persons read the Old Testament Lesson and 
the Epistle.*

*The Readings are ordinarily selected from the following list and may be 
lengthened if desired.  On a Major Feast or on a Sunday, the Presiding 
Bishop may select Readings from the Proper of the Day.*

  =Old Testament=  Isaiah 61:1-8, *or* Isaiah 42:1-9

  =Psalm=  99,  *or* 40:1-14,  *or* 100

  =Epistle=  Hebrews 5:1-10,  *or* 1 Timothy 3:1-7,  *or* 2 Corinthians 
3:4-9

<page 516>

*The Reader first says*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash..


*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*


*After each Reading, the Reader may say*

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle).

*Silence may follow.*


*A Psalm, canticle, or hymn follows each Reading.*


*Then, all standing, a Deacon or a Priest reads the Gospel, first 
saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ
according to &mdash.. 

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

  John 20:19-23,  *or* John 17:1-9,18-12,  *or* Luke 24:44-49a


*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.


<The Sermon>

*After the Sermon, the Congregation sings a hymn.* 

<page 517>


<The Examination>

*All now sit, except the bishop-elect, who stands facing the bishops. 
The Presiding Bishop addresses the bishop-elect*

My =brother=, the people have chosen you and have affirmed 
their trust in you by acclaiming your election.  A bishop in 
God's holy Church is called to be one with the apostles in 
proclaiming Christ's resurrection and interpreting the Gospel, 
and to testify to Christ's sovereignty as Lord of lords and 
King of kings.

You are called to guard the faith, unity, and discipline of the 
Church; to celebrate and to provide for the administration of 
the sacraments of the New Covenant; to ordain priests and 
deacons and to join in ordaining bishops; and to be in all 
things a faithful pastor and wholesome example for the 
entire flock of Christ.

With your fellow bishops you will share in the leadership of 
the Church throughout the world.  Your heritage is the faith 
of patriarchs, prophets, apostles, and martyrs, and those of 
every generation who have looked to God in hope.  Your joy 
will be to follow him who came, not to be served, but to 
serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.

Are you persuaded that God has called you to the office of 
bishop?

*Answer*  I am so persuaded.

*The following questions are then addressed to the bishop-elect by one 
or more of the other bishops*

<page 518>

*Bishop*  Will you accept this call and fulfill this trust in
obedience to Christ?

*Answer*  I will obey Christ, and will serve in his name.


*Bishop*  Will you be faithful in prayer, and in the study of 
Holy Scripture, that you may have the mind of Christ?

*Answer*  I will, for he is my help.


*Bishop*  Will you boldly proclaim and interpret the Gospel of
Christ, enlightening the minds and stirring up the conscience of your 
people?

*Answer*  I will, in the power of the Spirit.


*Bishop*  As a chief priest and pastor, will you encourage and
support all baptized people in their gifts and 
ministries, nourish them from the riches of God's 
grace, pray for them without ceasing, and celebrate 
with them the sacraments of our redemption?

*Answer*  I will, in the name of Christ, the Shepherd and Bishop of
our souls.


*Bishop*  Will you guard the faith, unity, and discipline of the
Church of God?

*Answer*  I will, for the love of God.


*Bishop*  Will you share with your fellow bishops in the 
government of the whole Church; will you sustain 
your fellow presbyters and take counsel with them; 
will you guide and strengthen the deacons and all 
others who minister in the Church?

*Answer*  I will, by the grace given me.


*Bishop*  Will you be merciful to all, show compassion to the 
poor and strangers, and defend those who have no helper? 

*Answer*  I will, for the sake of Christ Jesus.

<page 519>

*All stand.  The Presiding Bishop then says*

&N., through these promises you have committed yourself to 
God, to serve his Church in the office of bishop.  We therefore 
call upon you, chosen to be a guardian of the Church's faith, 
to lead us in confessing that faith.

*Bishop-elect*

We believe in one God.


*Then all sing or say together*

We believe in one God,
  the Father, the Almighty,
  maker of heaven and earth,
  of all that is, seen and unseen.

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, 
  the only Son of God,
  eternally begotten of the Father, 
  God from God, Light from Light,
  true God from true God,
  begotten, not made,
  of one Being with the Father. 
  Through him all things were made. 
  For us and for our salvation
    he came down from heaven:
  by the power of the Holy Spirit
    he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
    and was made man.
  For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
  he suffered death and was buried.
  On the third day he rose again
      in accordance with the Scriptures;
    he ascended into heaven
      and is seated at the right hand of the Father.

<page 520>

  He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
    and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, 
  who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
  With the Father and the Son he is worshipped and glorified.
  He has spoken through the Prophets.
  We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
  We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
  We look for the resurrection of the dead,
    and the life of the world to come.  Amen.


<The Consecration of the Bishop>

*All continue to stand, except the bishop-elect, who kneels before the 
Presiding Bishop.  The other bishops stand to the right and left of the 
Presiding Bishop.*

*The hymn, Veni Creator Spiritus, or the hymn, Veni Sancte Spiritus, is 
sung.*

*A period of silent prayer follows, the people still standing.*

*The Presiding Bishop then begins this Prayer of Consecration*

God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies 
and God of all comfort, dwelling on high but having regard 
for the lowly, knowing all things before they come to pass: 
We give you thanks that from the beginning you have 
gathered and prepared a people to be heirs of the covenant of 
Abraham, and have raised up prophets, kings, and priests, 
never leaving your temple untended.  We praise you also that 
from the creation you have graciously accepted the ministry 
of those whom you have chosen.

<page 421>

*The Presiding Bishop and other Bishops now lay their hands upon the 
head of the bishop-elect, and say together*

Therefore, Father, make &N. a bishop in your Church.  Pour 
out upon him the power of your princely Spirit, whom you 
bestowed upon your beloved Son Jesus Christ, with whom he 
endowed the apostles, and by whom your Church is built up in 
every place, to the glory and unceasing praise of your Name.

*The Presiding Bishop continues*

To you, O Father, all hearts are open; fill, we pray, the heart 
of this your servant whom you have chosen to be a bishop in 
your Church, with such love of you and of all the people, that 
=he= may feed and tend the flock of Christ, and exercise 
without reproach the high priesthood to which you have 
called =him=, serving before you day and night in the ministry 
of reconciliation, declaring pardon in your Name, offering the 
holy gifts, and wisely overseeing the life and work of the Church.  In 
all things may =he= present before you the acceptable offering of a 
pure, and gentle, and holy life; through Jesus Christ your Son, to whom, 
with you and the Holy Spirit, be honor and power and glory in the 
Church, now and for ever.

*The People in a loud voice respond*    Amen.

*The new bishop is now vested according to the order of bishops.*

*A Bible is presented with these words*

Receive the Holy Scriptures.  Feed the flock of Christ 
committed to your charge, guard and defend them in his 
truth, and be a faithful steward of his holy Word and 
Sacraments.

*After this other symbols of office may be given.*

<page 522>

*The Presiding Bishop presents to the people their new bishop.*

*The Clergy and People offer their acclamation and applause.*


<The Peace>

*The new Bishop then says*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.


*The Presiding Bishop and other Bishops greet the new bishop.*

*The People greet one another.*

*The new Bishop also greets members of the clergy, family members, and 
the congregation.*

*The new Bishop, if the Bishop of the Diocese, may now be escorted to 
the episcopal chair.*


<At the Celebration of the Eucharist>

*The liturgy continues with the Offertory.*

*Deacons prepare the Table.*

*Then the new Bishop goes to the Lord's Table as chief Celebrant and, 
joined by other bishops and presbyters, proceeds with the celebration of 
the Eucharist.*


<After Communion>

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, one of the bishops leads 
the people in the following*

<page 523>

Almighty Father, we thank you for feeding us with the holy 
food of the Body and Blood of your Son, and for uniting us 
through him in the fellowship of your Holy Spirit.  We thank 
you for raising up among us faithful servants for the ministry 
of your Word and Sacraments.  We pray that &N. may be to us 
an effective example in word and action, in love and patience, 
and in holiness of life.  Grant that we, with =him=, may serve 
you now, and always rejoice in your glory; through Jesus 
Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The new Bishop blesses the people, first saying*

Our help is in the Name of the Lord;

*People*      The maker of heaven and earth.

*New Bishop*  Blessed be the Name of the Lord;

*People*      From this time forth for evermore.

*New Bishop*  The blessing, mercy, and grace of God Almighty, 
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, be upon 
you, and remain with you for ever.  =Amen.=


*A Deacon dismisses the people*

Let us go forth into the world, rejoicing in the 
power of the Spirit.

*People*      Thanks be to God.


*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost, "Alleluia, alleluia," may 
be added to the dismissal and to the response.*

<page 524>


*Concerning the Service*

*When a bishop is to confer Holy Orders, at least two presbyters must be 
present.*

*From the beginning of the service until the Offertory, the bishop 
presides from a chair placed close to the people, and facing them, so 
that all may see and hear what is done.*

*The ordinand is to be vested in surplice or alb, without stole, tippet, 
or other vesture distinctive of ecclesiastical or academic or order.*

*When the ordinand is presented, =his= full name (designated by the 
symbol &N.&N.) is used.  Thereafter, it is appropriate to refer to =him= 
only by the Christian name by which =he= wishes to be known.*

*At the Offertory, it is appropriate that the bread and wine be brought 
to the Altar by the family and friends of the newly ordained.*

*At the Great Thanksgiving, the new priest and other priests stand at 
the Altar with the bishop, as associates and fellow ministers of the
Sacrament, and communicate with the bishop.*

*The family of the newly ordained may receive Communion before other 
members of the congregation.  Opportunity is always given to the people 
to communicate.*

*Additional Directions are on page 552.*

<page 525>



<The Ordination of a Priest>


*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


*The people standing, the Bishop says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Bishop*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Bishop*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*Bishop*

Almighty God, to you all hearts are open, all desires known, 
and from you no secrets are hid: Cleanse the thoughts of our 
hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may 
perfectly love you, and worthily magnify your holy Name; 
through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 526>


<The Presentation>

*The bishop and people sit.  A Priest and a Lay Person, and additional 
presenters if desired, standing before the bishop, present the ordinand, 
saying*

&N., Bishop in the Church of God, on behalf of the clergy and 
people of the Diocese of &N., we present to you &N.&N. to be 
ordained a priest in Christ's holy catholic Church.

*Bishop*

Has =he= been selected in accordance with the canons of this 
Church?  And do you believe his manner of life to be suitable 
to the exercise of this ministry?


*Presenters*

We certify to you that =he= has satisfied the requirements of the 
canons, and we believe =him= to be qualified for this order.


*The Bishop says to the ordinand*

Will you be loyal to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of 
Christ as this Church has received them?  And will you, in 
accordance with the canons of this Church, obey your bishop 
and other ministers who may have authority over you and 
your work?


*Answer*

I am willing and ready to do so; and I solemnly declare that I 
do believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments 
to be the Word of God, and to contain all things necessary to 
salvation; and I do solemnly engage to conform to the doctrine, 
discipline, and worship of The Episcopal Church.

<page 527>

*The Ordinand then signs the above Declaration in the sight of all 
present.*  

*All stand.  The Bishop says to the people*

Dear friends in Christ, you know the importance of this 
ministry, and the weight of your responsibility in presenting 
&N.&N. for ordination to the sacred priesthood.  Therefore if 
any of you know any impediment or crime because of which 
we should not proceed, come forward now, and make it known.


*If no objection is made, the Bishop continues*

Is it your will that &N. be ordained a priest?


*The People respond in these or other words*

It is.


*Bishop*

Will you uphold him in this ministry?


*The People respond in these or other words*

We will.


*The Bishop then calls the people to prayer with these or similar words*

In peace let us pray to the Lord.


*All kneel, and the Person appointed leads the Litany for Ordinations, 
or some other approved litany.  At the end of the litany, after the 
Kyries, the Bishop stands and reads the Collect for the Day, or the 
following Collect, or both, first saying*

The Lord be with you

*People*  And also with you.

<page 528>

Let us pray.

O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look 
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred 
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry 
out in tranquillity the plan of salvation; let the whole world 
see and know that things which were being cast down are being 
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made 
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection 
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Ministry of the Word>

*Three Lessons are read.  Lay persons read the Old Testament Lesson and 
the Epistle.*

*The Readings are ordinarily selected from the following list and may be 
lengthened if desired.  On a Major Feast, or on a Sunday, the Bishop may 
select Readings from the Proper of the Day.*

  =Old Testament=  Isaiah 6:1-8,  *or* Numbers 11:16-17,24-25 (omitting 
the final clause)

  =Psalm= 43, *or* 132:8-19

  =Epistle=  1 Peter 5:1-4, *or* Ephesians 4:7,11-16,  *or* Philippians 
4:4-9

*It is to be noted that where the words elder, elders, and fellow
elder, appear in translations of 1 Peter 5:1, the original Greek
terms presbyter, presbyters, and fellow presbyter, are to be 
substituted.*


*The Reader first says*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash..

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*

<page 529>

*After each Reading, the Reader may say*

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle).

*Silence may follow.*

*A Psalm, canticle, or hymn follows each Reading.*

*Then, all standing, the Deacon, or if no deacon is present, a Priest 
reads the Gospel, first saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ
according to &mdash.. 

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

  Matthew 9:35-38,  *or* John 10:11-18,  *or* John 6:35-38

*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.


<The Sermon>


*The Congregation then says or sings the Nicene Creed*

We believe in one God,
  the Father, the Almighty,
  maker of heaven and earth,
  of all that is, seen and unseen.

<page 530>

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, 
  the only Son of God,
  eternally begotten of the Father, 
  God from God, Light from Light,
  true God from true God,
  begotten, not made,
  of one Being with the Father. 
  Through him all things were made. 
  For us and for our salvation
    he came down from heaven:
  by the power of the Holy Spirit
    he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
    and was made man.
  For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
  he suffered death and was buried.
  On the third day he rose again
      in accordance with the Scriptures;
    he ascended into heaven
      and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
  He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
    and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, 
  who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
  With the Father and the Son he is worshipped and glorified.
  He has spoken through the Prophets.
  We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
  We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
  We look for the resurrection of the dead,
    and the life of the world to come.  Amen.

<page 531>


<The Examination>

*All are seated except the ordinand, who stands before the Bishop.*

*The Bishop addresses the ordinand as follows*

My =brother=, the Church is the family of God, the body of 
Christ, and the temple of the Holy Spirit.  All baptized people 
are called to make Christ known as Savior and Lord, and to 
share in the renewing of his world.  Now you are called to 
work as pastor, priest, and teacher, together with your 
bishop and fellow presbyters, and to take your share in the 
councils of the Church.

As a priest, it will be your task to proclaim by word and deed 
the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and to fashion your life in 
accordance with its precepts.  You are to love and serve the 
people among whom you work, caring alike for young and 
old, strong and weak, rich and poor. You are to preach, to 
declare God's forgiveness to penitent sinners, to pronounce 
God's blessing, to share in the administration of Holy 
Baptism and in the celebration of the mysteries of Christ's 
Body and Blood, and to perform the other ministrations 
entrusted to you.

In all that you do, you are to nourish Christ's people from the 
riches of his grace, and strengthen them to glorify God in this 
life and in the life to come.

My =brother=, do you believe that you are truly called by God 
and his Church to this priesthood?

*Answer*  I believe I am so called.


*Bishop*  Do you now in the presence of the Church commit 
yourself to this trust and responsibility?

*Answer*  I do.

<page 532>

*Bishop*  Will you respect and be guided by the pastoral 
direction and leadership of your bishop?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you be diligent in the reading and study of the 
Holy Scriptures, and in seeking the knowledge of 
such things as may make you a stronger and more 
able minister of Christ?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you endeavor so to minister the Word of God 
and the sacraments of the New Covenant, that the 
reconciling love of Christ may be known and 
received?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you undertake to be a faithful pastor to all 
whom you are called to serve, laboring together 
with them and with your fellow ministers to build 
up the family of God?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you do you best to pattern your life [and that
 of your family, *or* household, *or* community] in 
accordance with the teachings of Christ, so that you 
may be a wholesome example to your people?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you persevere in prayer, both in public and in 
private, asking God's grace, both for yourself and for 
others, offering all your labors to God, through the 
mediation of Jesus Christ, and in the sanctification 
of the Holy Spirit?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  May the Lord who has given you the will to do these 
things give you the grace and power to perform them.

*Answer*  Amen.

<page 533>


<The Consecration of the Priest>

*All now stand except the ordinand, who kneels facing the Bishop and the 
presbyters who stand to the right and left of the Bishop.*

*The hymn, Veni Creator Spiritus, or the hymn, Veni Sancte Spiritus, is 
sung.*

*A period of silent prayer follows, the people still standing.*

*The Bishop then says this Prayer of Consecration*

God and Father of all, we praise you for your infinite love in 
calling us to be a holy people in the kingdom of your Son 
Jesus our Lord, who is the image of your eternal and invisible 
glory, the firstborn among many brethren, and the head of 
the Church.  We thank you that by his death he has overcome 
death, and, having ascended into heaven, has poured his gifts 
abundantly upon your people, making some apostles, some 
prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers, to 
equip the saints for the work of ministry and the building up 
of his body.

*Here the Bishop says hands upon the head of the ordinand, the Priests 
who are present also laying on their hands.  At the same time the Bishop 
prays*

Therefore, Father, through Jesus Christ your Son, give 
your Holy Spirit to &N.; fill =him= with grace and power, and 
make =him= a priest in your Church.

<page 534>

*The Bishop then continues*

May =he= exalt you, O Lord, in the midst of your people; offer 
spiritual sacrifices acceptable to you; boldly proclaim the 
gospel of salvation; and rightly administer the sacraments of 
the New Covenant. Make =him= a faithful pastor, a patient 
teacher, and a wise councilor. Grant that in all things =he= may 
serve without reproach, so that your people may be 
strengthened and your Name glorified in all the world. All 
this we ask through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with you and 
the Holy Spirit lives and reigns, one God, for ever and ever.

*The People in a loud voice respond*    Amen.


*The new priest is now vested according to the order of priests.*


*The Bishop then gives a Bible to the newly ordained, saying*

Receive this Bible as a sign of the authority given you to 
preach the Word of God and to administer his holy 
Sacraments.  Do not forget the trust committed to you as a 
priest of the Church of God.

*The Bishop greets the newly ordained.*


<The Peace>

*The new Priest then says to the congregation*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*The Presbyters present greet the newly ordained; who then greets family 
members and others, as may be convenient.  The Clergy and People greet 
one another.*

<page 535>


<At the Celebration of the Eucharist>

*The liturgy continues with the Offertory.  Deacons prepare the Table.*

*Standing at the Lord's Table, with the Bishop and other presbyters, the 
newly ordained Priest joins in the celebration of the Holy Eucharist and 
in the Breaking of the Bread.*

After Communion

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, the following is said*

Almighty Father, we thank you for feeding us with the holy 
food of the Body and Blood of your Son, and for uniting us 
through him in the fellowship of your Holy Spirit.  We thank 
you for raising up among us faithful servants for the ministry 
of your Word and Sacraments.  We pray that &N. may be to us 
an effective example in word and action, in love and patience, 
and in holiness of life.  Grant that we, with =him=, may serve 
you now, and always rejoice in your glory; through Jesus 
Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop then asks the new priest to bless the people.*

*The new Priest says*

The blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, 
be among you, and remain with you always.  =Amen.=

*A Deacon, or a Priest if no deacon is present, dismisses the people*

Let us go forth into the world, rejoicing in the 
power of the Spirit.

*People*  Thanks be to God.


*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost, "Alleluia, alleluia," may 
be added to the dismissal and to the response.*

<page 536>


*Concerning the Service*

*When a bishop is to confer Holy Orders, at least two presbyters must be 
present.*

*From the beginning of the service until the Offertory, the bishop 
presides from a chair placed close to the people, and facing them, so 
that all may see and hear what is done.*

*The ordinand is to be vested in surplice or alb, without stole, tippet, 
or other vesture distinctive of ecclesiastical or academic or order.*

*When the ordinand is presented, =his= full name (designated by the 
symbol &N.&N.) is used.  Thereafter, it is appropriate to refer to =him= 
only by the Christian name by which =he= wishes to be known.*

*At the Offertory, it is appropriate that the bread and wine be brought 
to the Altar by the family and friends of the newly ordained.*

*After receiving Holy Communion, the new deacon assists in the 
distribution of the Sacrament, ministering either the Bread or the Wine, 
or both.*

*The family of the newly ordained may receive Communion before other 
members of the congregation.  Opportunity is always given to the people 
to communicate.*

*Additional Directions are on page 552.*

<page 537>



<The Ordination of a Deacon>


*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


*The people standing, the Bishop says*

Blessed be God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

*People*  And blessed be his kingdom, now and for ever.  Amen.


*In place of the above, from Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost*

*Bishop*  Alleluia.  Christ is risen.

*People*  The Lord is risen indeed.  Alleluia.


*In Lent and on other penitential occasions*

*Bishop*  Bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.

*People*  His mercy endures for ever.


*Bishop*

Almighty God, to you all hearts are open, all desires known, 
and from you no secrets are hid: Cleanse the thoughts of our 
hearts by the inspiration of your Holy Spirit, that we may 
perfectly love you, and worthily magnify your holy Name; 
through Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 538>


<The Presentation>

*The bishop and people sit.  A Priest and a Lay Person, and additional 
presenters if desired, standing before the bishop, present the ordinand, 
saying*

&N., Bishop in the Church of God, on behalf of the clergy and 
people of the Diocese of &N., we present to you &N.&N. to be 
ordained a deacon in Christ's holy catholic Church.


*Bishop*

Has he been selected in accordance with the canons of this 
Church? And do you believe his manner of life to be suitable 
to the exercise of this ministry?


*Presenters*

We certify to you that he has satisfied the requirements of the 
canons, and we believe him qualified for this order.


*The Bishops say to the ordinand*

Will you be loyal to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of 
Christ as this Church has received them?  And will you, in 
accordance with the canons of this Church, obey your bishop 
and other ministers who may have authority over you and 
your work?


*Answer*

I am willing and ready to do so; and I solemnly declare that I 
do believe the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to 
be the Word of God, and to contain all things necessary to 
salvation; and I do solemnly engage to conform to the doctrine, 
discipline, and worship of The Episcopal Church.

<page 539>

*The Ordinand then signs the above Declaration in the sight of all 
present.*  

*All stand.  The Bishop says to the people*

Dear friends in Christ, you know the importance of this 
ministry, and the weight of your responsibility in presenting 
&N.&N. for ordination to the sacred order of deacons.  Therefore 
if any of you know any impediment or crime because of 
which we should not proceed, come forward now, and make 
it known.

*If no objection is made, the Bishop continues*

Is it your will that &N. be ordained a deacon?


*The People respond in these or other words*

It is.


*Bishop*

Will you uphold him in this ministry?


*The People respond in these or other words*

We will.


*The Bishop then calls the people to prayer with these or similar words*

In peace let us pray to the Lord.

*All kneel, and the Person appointed leads the Litany for Ordinations, 
or some other approved litany.  At the end of the litany, after the 
Kyries, the Bishop stands and reads the Collect for the Day, or the 
following Collect, or both, first saying*

The Lord be with you

*People*  And also with you.

<page 540>

Let us pray.

O God of unchangeable power and eternal light: Look 
favorably on your whole Church, that wonderful and sacred 
mystery; by the effectual working of your providence, carry 
out in tranquillity the plan of salvation; let the whole world 
see and know that things which were being cast down are being 
raised up, and things which had grown old are being made 
new, and that all things are being brought to their perfection 
by him through whom all things were made, your Son Jesus 
Christ our Lord; who lives and reigns with you, in the unity 
of the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


<The Ministry of the Word>

*Three Lessons are read.  Lay persons read the Old Testament Lesson and 
the Epistle.*

*The Readings are ordinarily selected from the following list and may be 
lengthened if desired.  On a Major Feast, or on a Sunday, the Bishop may 
select Readings from the Proper of the Day.*

  =Old Testament=  Jeremiah 1:4-9,  *or* Ecclesiasticus 39:1-8

  =Psalm=  84, *or* 119:33-40

  =Epistle=  2 Corinthians 4:1-6, *or* 1 Timothy 3:8-13, *or* Acts 6:2-7


*The Reader first says*

A Reading (Lesson) from &mdash..

*A citation giving chapter and verse may be added.*

<page 541>

*After each Reading, the Reader may say*

The Word of the Lord.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*or the Reader may say*  Here ends the Reading (Epistle).

*Silence may follow.*

*A Psalm, canticle, or hymn follows each Reading.*

*Then, all standing, the Deacon, or if no deacon is present, a Priest 
reads the Gospel, first saying*

The Holy Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ
according to &mdash.. 

*People*  Glory to you, Lord Christ.

  Luke 12:35-38, *or* Luke 22:24-27


*After the Gospel, the Reader says*

The Gospel of the Lord.

*People*  Praise to you, Lord Christ.


<The Sermon>


*The Congregation then says or sings the Nicene Creed*

We believe in one God,
  the Father, the Almighty,
  maker of heaven and earth,
  of all that is, seen and unseen.

<page 542>

We believe in one Lord, Jesus Christ, 
  the only Son of God,
  eternally begotten of the Father, 
  God from God, Light from Light,
  true God from true God,
  begotten, not made,
  of one Being with the Father. 
  Through him all things were made. 
  For us and for our salvation
    he came down from heaven:
  by the power of the Holy Spirit
    he became incarnate from the Virgin Mary,
    and was made man.
  For our sake he was crucified under Pontius Pilate;
  he suffered death and was buried.
  On the third day he rose again
      in accordance with the Scriptures;
    he ascended into heaven
      and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
  He will come again in glory to judge the living and the dead,
    and his kingdom will have no end.

We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the giver of life, 
  who proceeds from the Father and the Son.
  With the Father and the Son he is worshipped and glorified.
  He has spoken through the Prophets.
  We believe in one holy catholic and apostolic Church.
  We acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.
  We look for the resurrection of the dead,
    and the life of the world to come.  Amen.

<page 543>


<The Examination>

*All are seated except the ordinand, who stands before the Bishop.  The 
Bishop addresses the ordinand as follows*

My =brother=, every Christian is called to follow Jesus Christ, 
serving God the Father, through the power of the Holy Spirit.  
God now calls you to a special ministry of servanthood 
directly under your bishop. In the name of Jesus Christ, you 
are to serve all people, particularly the poor, the weak, the 
sick, and the lonely.

As a deacon in the Church, you are to study the Holy 
Scriptures, to seek nourishment from them, and to model 
your life upon them.  You are to make Christ and his 
redemptive love known, by your word and example, to those 
among whom you live, and work, and worship.  You are to 
interpret to the Church the needs, concerns, and hopes of the 
world.  You are to assist the bishop and priests in public 
worship and in the ministration of God's Word and 
Sacraments, and you are to carry out other duties assigned to 
you from time to time.  At all times, your life and teaching are 
to show Christ's people that in serving the helpless they are 
serving Christ himself. 

My =brother=, do you believe that you are truly called by God 
and his Church to the life and work of a deacon?

*Answer*  I believe I am so called.


*Bishop*  Do you now in the presence of the Church commit 
yourself to this trust and responsibility?

*Answer*  I do.


*Bishop*  Will you  be guided by the pastoral direction and 
leadership of your bishop?

*Answer*  I will.

<page 544>           

*Bishop*  Will you be faithful in prayer, and in the reading 
and study of the Holy Scriptures?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you look for Christ in all others, being ready to 
heal and serve those in need?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you do you best to pattern your life [and that
of your family, *or* household, *or* community] in 
accordance with the teachings of Christ, so that you 
may be a wholesome example to all people?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  Will you in all things seek not your glory but the 
glory of the Lord Christ?

*Answer*  I will.


*Bishop*  May the Lord by his grace uphold you in the service 
he lays upon you.

*Answer*  Amen.


<The Consecration of the Deacon>

*All now stand except the ordinand, who kneels facing the Bishop.*

*The hymn, Veni Creator Spiritus, or the hymn, Veni Sancte Spiritus, is 
sung.*

*A period of silent prayer follows, the people still standing.*

<page 545>

*The Bishop then says this Prayer of Consecration*

O God, most merciful Father, we praise you for sending your 
Son Jesus Christ, who took on himself the form of a servant, 
and humbled himself, becoming obedient even to death on 
the cross.  We praise you that you have highly exalted him, 
and made him Lord of all; and that, through him, we know 
that whoever would be great must be servant of all.  We praise 
you for the many ministries in your Church, and for calling 
this your servant to the order of deacons.


*Here the Bishop lays hands upon the head of the ordinand, and prays*

Therefore, Father, through Jesus Christ your Son, give your 
Holy Spirit to &N.; fill him with grace and power, and make 
him a deacon in your Church.

*The Bishop continues*

Make =him=, O Lord, modest and humble, strong and constant, 
to observe the discipline of Christ.  Let =his= life and teaching so 
reflect your commandments, that through =him= many may 
come to know you and love you.  As your Son came not to be 
served but to serve, may this deacon share in Christ's service, 
and come to the unending glory of him who, with you and 
the Holy Spirit, lives and reigns, one God, for ever and ever. 

*The People in a loud voice respond*  Amen.


*The new deacon is now vested according to the order of deacons.*


*The Bishop then gives a Bible to the newly ordained, saying*

Receive this Bible as the sign of your authority to proclaim 
God's Word and to assist in the ministration of his holy 
Sacraments.  

<page 546>


<The Peace>

*The Bishop then says to the congregation*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.


*The Bishop and the Clergy now greet the newly ordained.*

*The new Deacon then exchanges greetings with family members and others, 
as may be convenient.*

*The Clergy and People greet one another.*


<At the Celebration of the Eucharist>

*The liturgy continues with the Offertory.*

*The newly ordained Deacon prepares the bread, pours sufficient wine 
(and a little water) into the chalice, and places the vessels on the 
Lord's Table.*

*The Bishop goes to the Table and begins the Great Thanksgiving.*


<After Communion>

*In place of the usual postcommunion prayer, the following is said*

Almighty Father, we thank you for feeding us with the holy 
food of the Body and Blood of your Son, and for uniting us 
through him in the fellowship of your Holy Spirit.  We thank 
you for raising up among us faithful servants for the ministry 
<page 547> 
of your Word and Sacraments.  We pray that &N. may be to us 
an effective example in word and action, in love and patience, 
and in holiness of life.  Grant that we, with =him=, may serve 
you now, and always rejoice in your glory; through Jesus 
Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop blesses the people, after which the new Deacon dismisses 
them*

Let us go forth into the world, 
rejoicing in the power of the Spirit.

*People*  Thanks be to God.

*From Easter Day through the Day of Pentecost, "Alleluia, alleluia," may 
be added to the dismissal and to the response.*

<page 548>


<The Litany for Ordinations>

*For use at Ordinations as directed.  On Ember Days or other occasions, 
if desired, this Litany may be used for the Prayers of the People at the 
Eucharist or the Daily Office, or it may be used separately.*

God the Father,
=Have mercy on us.=

God the Son,
=Have mercy on us.=

God the Holy Spirit,
=Have mercy on us.=


We pray to you, Lord Christ.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For the holy Church of God, that it may be filled with truth 
and love, and be found without fault at the Day of your 
Coming,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For all members of your Church in their vocation and
ministry, that they may serve you in a true and godly life,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For &N., our Presiding Bishop, and for all bishops, priests, and 
deacons, that they may be filled with your love, may hunger 
for truth, and may thirst after righteousness,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

<page 549>

[[For &N., chosen bishop (priest, deacon) in your Church,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

That =he= may faithfully fulfill the duties of this ministry, build
up your Church, and glorify your Name,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

That by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit =he= may be sustained and
encouraged to persevere to the end,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=]]

[[For =his= family [the members of =his= household *or* community], 
that they may be adorned with all Christian virtues,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=]]

For all who fear God and believe in you, Lord Christ, that 
our divisions may cease and that all may be one as you 
and the Father are one,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For the mission of the Church, that in faithful witness it may 
preach the Gospel to the ends of the earth,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For those who do not yet believe, and for those who have lost 
their faith, that they may receive the light of the Gospel,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

For the peace of the world, that a spirit of respect and 
forbearance may grow among nations and peoples,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

<page 550>

*For those in positions of public trust [especially &mdash.], 
that they may serve justice and promote the dignity and 
freedom of every person,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

[[For a blessing upon all human labor, and for the right use 
of the riches of creation, that the world may be freed from 
poverty, famine, and disaster,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=]]

For the poor, the persecuted, the sick, and all who suffer; for 
refugees, prisoners, and all who are in danger; that they may be 
relieved and protected,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

[[For ourselves; for the forgiveness of our sins, and for the 
grace of the Holy Spirit to amend our lives,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=]]

For all who have died in the communion of your Church, and 
those whose faith is known to you alone, that, with all the 
saints, they may rest in that place where there is no pain 
or grief, but life eternal,
we pray to you, O Lord.
=Lord, hear our prayer.=

Rejoicing in the fellowship of [the ever-blessed Virgin Mary, 
(=blessed= &N.) and] all the saints, let us commend ourselves, 
and one another, and all our life to Christ our God.  
=To you, O Lord our God.=

<page 551>

Lord, have mercy.
=Christ, have mercy.=
Lord, have mercy.


*At Ordinations, the Bishop who is presiding stands and says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Bishop*  Let us pray.

The Bishop says the appointed Collect.


*When this Litany is used on other occasions, the Officiant concludes 
with a suitable Collect.*

<page 552>


*Additional Directions*


*At all Ordinations*

*The celebration of the Holy Eucharist may be according to Rite One or 
Rite Two.  In either case, the rubrics of the service of ordination are 
followed.  The Summary of the Law, the Gloria in excelsis, the Prayers 
of the People after the Creed, the General Confession, and the usual 
postcommunion prayer are not used.*

*At the Presentation of the Ordinand, the Declaration "I do believe the 
Holy Scriptures..." is to be provided as a separate document to be 
signed, as directed by Article VIII of the Constitution of this Church 
and by the rubrics in each of the ordination rites.  (Where there are 
more ordinands than one, each is to be presented with a separate copy 
for signature.)*

*The hymn to the Holy Spirit before the Prayer of Consecration may be 
sung responsively between a bishop and the congregation, or in same 
other convenient manner.*

*If vestments or other symbols of office are to be dedicated, such 
blessing is to take place at some convenient time prior to the service.  
The following form may be used.*

&V.  Our help is in the Name of the Lord;

&R.  The maker of heaven and earth.

&V.  The Lord be with you.

&R.  And also with you.

Let us pray.

Everliving God, whose power is limitless, we place before 
you, with our praise and thanks, =these tokens= of your 
servant's ministry and dignity.  Grant that &N., who has been 
called to leadership in your Church, and bears =these signs=, 
may faithfully serve you and share in the fullness of your 
life-giving Spirit; through the high priest and good shepherd 
of us all, Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 553>


*At the Ordination of a Bishop*

*Following the Consecration Prayer, and while the new bishop is being 
clothed with the vesture of the episcopate, instrumental music may be 
played.*

*Following the presentation of the Bible, and the formula "Receive the 
Holy Scriptures..." a ring, staff, and mitre, or other suitable insignia 
of office may be presented.*

*During the Eucharistic Prayer, it is appropriate that some of the 
consecrating bishops, and representative presbyters of the diocese, 
stand with the new bishop at the Altar as fellow ministers of the 
Sacrament.*

*The newly ordained bishop, assisted by other ministers, distributes 
Holy Communion to the people.  When necessary, the administration may 
take place at several conveniently separated places in the church.*

*After the pontifical blessing and the dismissal, a hymn of praise may 
be sung.*

*The bishops who are present are not to depart without signing the 
Letters of Consecration.*


*At the Ordination of a Priest*

*Reasonable opportunity is to be given for the priests present to join 
in the laying on of hands.*

*The stole worn about the neck, or other insignia of the office of 
priest, is placed upon the new priest after the entire Prayer of 
Consecration is completed, and immediately before the Bible is 
presented.  Afterwards, other instruments or symbols of office may be 
given.*

*If two or more are ordained together, each is to have =his= own 
presenters.  The ordinands may be presented together, or in succession, 
as the bishop may direct.  Thereafter, references to the ordinand in the 
singular are changed to the plural where necessary. The ordinands are 
examined together.*

*During the Prayer of Consecration, the bishop and priests lay their 
hands upon the head of each ordinand.  During the laying on of hands, 
the bishop alone says over each ordinand "Father, through Jesus Christ 
your 
<page 554> 
Son, give your Holy Spirit to &N.; fill =him= with grace and power, and 
make =him= a priest in your Church."  When they have laid their hands 
upon all the ordinands, the bishop continues "May the exalt you, O Lord, 
in the midst..."*

*A Bible is to be given to each new priest, and the words "Receive this 
Bible..." are to be said to each one.*

*All the newly ordained take part in the exchange of the Peace, and join 
the bishop and other priests at the Altar for the Great Thanksgiving.  
Similarly, all the new priests break the consecrated Bread and receive 
Holy Communion.*


*At the Ordination of a Deacon*

*The stole worn over the left shoulder, or other insignia of the office 
of deacon, is placed upon the deacon after the entire Prayer of 
Consecration is completed, and immediately before the Bible is given.*

*If two or more are ordained together, each is to have =his= own 
presenters.  The ordinands may be presented together, or in succession, 
as the bishop may direct.  Thereafter, references to the ordinand in the 
singular are changed to the plural where necessary.*

*The ordinands are examined together.*

*During the Prayer of Consecration, the bishop is to lay hands upon the 
head of each ordinand, and say over each "Father, through Jesus Christ 
your Son, give your Holy Spirit to &N.; fill =him= with grace and power, 
and make =him= a deacon in your Church."  When they have laid their 
hands upon all the ordinands, the bishop continues "Make them, O Lord, 
modest and humble..."*

*A Bible is to be given to each new deacon, and the words "Receive this 
Bible..." are also to be said to each one.*

*After participating in the Peace, the deacons go to the Altar for the 
Offertory.  If there are many deacons, some assist in the Offertory and 
others administer Holy Communion.  One, appointed by the bishop, is to 
say the dismissal.*

*<page 555>*

*When desired, deacons may be appointed to carry the Sacrament and 
minister Holy Communion to those communicants who, because of sickness 
or other grave cause, could not be present at the ordination.*

*If the remaining Elements are not required for the Communion of the 
absent, it is appropriate for the deacons to remove the vessels from the 
Altar, consume the remaining Elements, and cleanse the vessels in some 
convenient place.*

<page 556>

<page 557>


<Letter of Institution of a Minister>

&N.&N., Presbyter of the Church of God, you have been called to work 
together with your Bishop and fellow-Presbyters as a pastor, priest, and 
teacher, and to take your share in the councils of the Church.

Now, in accordance with the Canons, you have been selected to serve God 
in &mdash. Church [of] &mdash..

This letter is a sign that you are fully empowered and authorized to 
exercise this ministry, accepting its privileges and responsibilities as 
a priest of this Diocese, in communion with your Bishop.

Having committed yourself to this work, do not forget the trust of those 
who have chosen you.  Care alike for young and old, strong and weak, 
rich and poor.  By your words, and in your life, proclaim the Gospel.  
Love and serve Christ's people.  Nourish them, and strengthen them to 
glorify God in this life and in the life to come.

May the Lord, who has given you the will to do these things, give you 
the grace and power to perform them.

Given under my hand and seal, in the city of &mdash., on the &mdash. day 
of &mash., 19&mdash., and in the &mdash. year of my consecration.

(Signed) &mdash.

Bishop of &mdash..

<page 558>


*Concerning the Service*

*This order is for use when a priest is being instituted and inducted as 
the rector of a parish.  It may also be used for the installation of 
deans and canons of cathedrals, or the inauguration of other ministries, 
diocesan or parochial, including vicars of missions and assistant 
ministers.  Alterations in the service are then made according to 
circumstances.*

*The chief minister is normally the bishop; but, if necessary, a deputy 
may be appointed.  The bishop, when present, is the chief celebrant of 
the Eucharist.  In the bishop's absence, a priest being inducted is the 
chief celebrant.*

*Other priests, if any, who serve in the same congregation also stand 
with the chief celebrant at the Altar, and deacons assist according to 
their order.*

*Lay persons from the congregation read the Old Testament Lesson and the 
Epistle, and perform other actions as indicated in the rubrics.  A 
deacon or priest reads the Gospel.  Other clergy of the diocese 
participate in this celebration as an expression of the collegiality of 
the ministry in which they share.*

*Ministers of other Churches may appropriately be invited to 
participate.*

*The new minister, if a deacon, should read the Gospel, prepare the 
elements at the Offertory, assist the celebration at the Altar, and 
dismiss the congregation.*

*A lay person being instituted should read one of the Lessons and assist 
where appropriate.*

*Additional Directions are on page 564.*

<page 559>


<Celebration of a
New Ministry>


*A hymn, psalm, or anthem may be sung.*


<The Institution>

*The Wardens, standing before the bishop with the new minister, say 
these or similar words*

Bishop &N., we have come together today to welcome &N.&N., 
who has been chosen to serve as =Rector= of (=name of church=).  
We believe that =he= is well qualified, and that =he= has been 
prayerfully and lawfully selected.

*The Bishop may read the Letter of Institution, or else may state the 
purpose of the new ministry.*


*The Bishop then says*

&N., do you, in the presence of this congregation, commit 
yourself to this new trust and responsibility?

*New minister*  I do.


*The Bishop then addresses the congregation*

Will you who witness this new beginning support and uphold 
&N. in this ministry?

*People*  We will.

<page 560>

*The Bishop, standing, says*

Let us then offer our prayers to God for all his people, for this 
congregation, and for &N. their =Rector=.

*The Litany for Ordinations, or some other appropriate litany, is led by 
a person appointed.  At the end of the litany, the Bishop, standing, 
says the following or some other Collect, first saying*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Bishop*  Let us pray.

Everliving God, strengthen and sustain &N., that with patience 
and understanding he may love and care for your people; and 
grant that together they may follow Jesus Christ, offering to 
you their gifts and talents; through him who lives and reigns 
with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  
=Amen.=


<At the Liturgy of the Word>

*The Readings are selected from the following list, or in accordance 
with the directions on page 565.*

  =Old Testament=  Joshua 1:7-9, *or* Numbers 11:16-17,24-25a

  =Psalm=  43,  *or* 132:1-9, *or* 146, *or* 133 and 134 (especially 
suitable for use in the evening)

  =Epistle=  Romans 12:1-18,  *or* Ephesians 4:7,11-16

  =Gospel=  John 15:9-16,  *or* Luke 10:1-2,  *or* John 14:11-15


=The Sermon=

*After the Sermon, and any responses to it, the congregation sings a 
hymn.*

<page 561>


<The Induction>

*Representatives of the congregation and of the clergy of the diocese 
stand before the bishop with the new minister.  Any of the presentations 
that follow may be added to, omitted, or adapted, as appropriate to the 
nature of the new ministry, and to the order of the minister.  In the 
absence of the bishop, the deputy substitutes the words given in 
parentheses.*


*Representatives of the congregation present a Bible, saying*

&N., accept this Bible, and be among us (*or* be in this place) as 
one who proclaims the Word.

*People*  Amen.


*The Bishop presents a vessel of water, saying*

&N., take this water, and help me (help the bishop) baptize in 
obedience to our Lord.

*People*  Amen.


*Others present a stole or other symbol, saying*

&N., receive this =stole=, and be among us as a pastor and priest. 
*People*  Amen.


*Others present a book of prayers or other symbol, saying*

&N., receive this =book=, and be among us as a =man= of prayer.

*People*  Amen.


Others present olive oil or some other symbol, saying

&N., use this =oil=, and be among us as a healer and reconciler.

*People*  Amen.

<page 561>


*If the new minister is the rector or vicar of the parish, a Warden may 
now present the keys of the church, saying*

&N., receive these keys, and let the doors of this place be open 
to all people.

*People*  Amen.


*Representative clergy of the diocese present the Constitution and 
Canons of this Church, saying*

&N., obey these Canons, and be among us to share in the councils of this 
diocese.

*People*  Amen.


*Other Representatives of the congregation present bread and wine, 
saying*

&N., take this bread and wine, and be among us to break the 
Bread and bless the Cup.

*People*  Amen.


*The Bishop then says*

&N., let all these be signs of the ministry which is mine and 
yours (the Bishop's and yours) in this place.

*People*  Amen.


*The new Minister, if a priest, may then kneel in the midst of the 
church, and may say*

O Lord my God, I am not worthy to have you come under 
my roof; yet you have called your servant to stand in your 
house, and to serve at your altar.  To you and to your service 
I devote myself, body, soul, and spirit.  Fill my memory with 
the record of your mighty works; enlighten my understanding 
with the light of your Holy Spirit; and may all the desires of 
my heart and will center in what you would have me do.  Make 
<page 563> 
me an instrument of your salvation for the people entrusted 
to my care, and grant that I may faithfully administer your 
holy Sacraments, and by my life and teaching set forth your 
true and living Word.  Be always with me in carrying out the 
duties of my ministry.  In prayer, quicken my devotion; in 
praises, heighten my love and gratitude; in preaching, give me 
readiness of thought and expression; and grant that, by the 
clearness and brightness of your holy Word, all the world may 
be drawn into your blessed kingdom.  All this I ask for the 
sake of your Son our Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop then presents the new minister to the congregation, saying*

Greet your new =Rector=.


*When appropriate, the family of the new minister may also be presented 
at this time.*


*The Congregation expresses its approval.  Applause is appropriate. The 
Bishop greets the new minister.*


*The new Minister then says to the people*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.


*The new Minister then greets other members of the clergy, family 
members, and the congregation.  The People greet one another.*


<At the Eucharist>

*The service continues with the Offertory.*

*The Bishop, or in the Bishop's absence a Priest beginning a new 
ministry, standing at the Lord's Table as chief celebrant, and joined by 
the other clergy, proceeds with the Great Thanksgiving of the 
Eucharist.*

<page 564>

*Except on Major Feasts, the Preface may be that for Apostles and 
Ordinations.*


<After Communion>

*At the Induction of a priest or deacon, in place of the usual 
postcommunion prayer, the Bishop leads the people in the following 
prayer; but if the new minister is a lay person, the usual postcommunion 
prayer is used.*

Almighty Father, we thank you for feeding us with the holy 
food of the Body and Blood of your Son, and for uniting us 
through him in the fellowship of your Holy Spirit.  We thank 
you for raising up among us faithful servants for the ministry 
of your Word and Sacraments.  We pray that &N. may be to us 
an effective example in word and action, in love and patience, 
and in holiness of life.  Grant that we, with =him=, may serve 
you now, and always rejoice in your glory; through Jesus 
Christ your Son our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and 
the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  Amen.

*A newly inducted Priest may, at the bishop's request, pronounce a 
blessing.*

*A Deacon, or a Priest if no deacon is present, dismisses the assembly.*


=Additional Directions=

*The Institution, the Ministry of the Word, and the Induction should 
occur at the entrance of the chancel, or in some other place where the 
bishop and other ministers may be clearly seen and heard by the people.*

*The Letter of Institution is appropriate for the induction of a rector 
of a parish, the dean of a cathedral, and others having similar tenure 
of office.
<page 565> 
Its wording may be altered by the bishop when circumstances require.  In 
other cases, the bishop may state briefly the nature of the person's 
office and the authority being conferred.*

*The new minister is normally presented to the bishop by the wardens of 
the parish, but additional, or other, persons may do this when desired.*

*The Litany may be sung or said standing or kneeling, but the bishop 
always stands for the salutation and Collect at the end of it.  The 
Collect of the Day, or a Collect of the season, or another prayer 
suitable to the occasion, may be used instead.*

*Before the Gospel, there may be one or two Readings from Scripture. Any 
of the Readings, including the Gospel, may be selected from the Proper 
of the Day, or from the passages cited in the service.  Other passages 
suitable to the circumstances may be substituted. Appropriate selections 
may be found in the service for the Ordination of a Deacon or in the 
Lectionary for Various Occasions.*

*The sermon may be preached by the bishop, the new minister, or some 
other person; or an address about the work of the congregation and of 
the new minister may be made.  Representatives of the congregation or of 
the community, the bishop, or other persons present, may speak in 
response to the address or sermon.*

*The symbols presented should be large enough to be visible to all and 
should remain in the sight of the congregation during the Induction. The 
vestments and bread and wine may be used in the Eucharist which 
follows.*

*The priest's prayer on page 562 is appropriate only for rectors of 
parishes, vicars of missions, hospital chaplains, and other priests 
having similar canonical charge.*

*For the Great Thanksgiving, any of the authorize eucharistic prayers 
may be used.*

<page 566>

=Concerning the Service=

*This service provides for the dedication and consecration of a church 
and its furnishings.  Portions of the service may be used, or adapted 
when necessary, for dedicating parts of a building, or furnishings, that 
have been added, altered, or renovated.  Likewise, suitable parts of 
this rite may be used for dedicating a chapel or an oratory within 
another building.  Provisions for adapting the rite to special 
circumstances are given on page 576.*

*This service may be used to dedicate and consecrate a church at any 
time after the building is ready for use as a place of worship.*

*The service does not preclude the use of the building for educational 
or social purposes, or for other suitable activities.*

*The bishop presides.  The rector or minister in charge takes part as 
indicated.  Neighboring ministers should be invited to participate, and 
may be assigned appropriate parts in the service.*

*It is desirable that all members of the congregation, young and old, 
have some individual or collective part in the celebration, as well as 
the architect, builders, musicians, artists, benefactors, and friends.*

*For a church or chapel long in use, a special order is provided on page 
577.*

*Additional Directions are on page 575.*

<page 567>


<The Dedication and
Consecration of a Church>

*On the day appointed, the clergy and people gather with the bishop in a 
place apart from the church or chapel.*

*When all are ready, the Bishop says the following or similar words*

Through the ages, Almighty God has moved his people to 
build houses of prayer and praise, and to set apart places for 
the ministry of his holy Word and Sacraments.  With gratitude 
for the building (rebuilding, *or* adornment) of (=name of 
church=), we are now gathered to dedicate and consecrate 
it in God's Name.


Let us pray.

Almighty God, we thank you for making us in your image, to 
share in the ordering of your world.  Receive the work of our 
hands in this place, now to be set apart for your worship, the 
building up of the living, and the remembrance of the dead, 
to the praise and glory of your Name; through Jesus Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.=

*Necessary announcements may now be made.*

*As the procession approaches the door of the church, singing and 
instrumental music are appropriate.*

<page 568>

*Standing at the door of the church, the Bishop says*

Let the door(s) be opened.


*The door is opened.  With the pastoral staff the Bishop marks the 
threshold with the sign of the cross saying*

Peace be to this house, and to all who enter here: + In the 
Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.  
=Amen.=


*As the procession moves into the church, Psalm 122 or some other 
appropriate psalm is sung.  Hymns and anthems may also be sung.*


*The congregation standing, the Bishop begins the Prayer for the 
Consecration of the Church*

Our help is in the Name of the Lord;

*People*  The maker of heaven and earth.

*Bishop*  Let us pray.


Everliving Father, watchful and caring, our source and our 
end: All that we are and all that we have is yours.  Accept us 
now, as we dedicate this place to which we come to praise 
your Name, to ask your forgiveness, to know your healing 
power, to hear your Word, and to be nourished by the Body 
and Blood of your Son.  Be present always to guide and to 
judge, to illuminate and to bless your people.


*A Warden or other representative of the congregation continues*

Lord Jesus Christ, make this a temple of your presence and a 
house of prayer.  Be always near us when we seek you in this 
place.  Draw us to you, when we come alone and when we 
come with others, to find comfort and wisdom, to be supported 
and strengthened, to rejoice and give thanks.  May it be here, 
Lord Christ, that we are made one with you and with one 
<page 569> 
another, so that our lives are sustained and sanctified for 
your service.


*The Rector or Minister in charge continues*

Holy Spirit, open our eyes, our ears, and our hearts, that we 
may grow closer to you through joy and through suffering.  
Be with us in the fullness of your power as new members are 
added to your household, as we grow in grace through the 
years, when we are joined in marriage, when we turn to you 
in sickness or special need, and, at the last, when we are 
committed into the Father's hands.


*The Bishop concludes*

Now, O Father, Son, and Holy Spirit,
sanctify this place;

*People*  For everything in heaven and on earth is yours.

*Bishop*  Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom;

*People*  And you are exalted as head over all.  Amen.


*The Bishop moves to the Font, lays a hand upon it, and says*

Father, we thank you that through the waters of Baptism we 
die to sin and are made new in Christ.  Grant through your Spirit 
that those baptized here may enjoy the liberty and 
splendor of the children of God.

&V.  There is one Lord, one Faith, or Baptism;

&R.  One God and Father of all.

We dedicate this Font in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of 
the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=

*If there are persons to be baptized, water is now poured into the Font, 
and the service continues as directed on page 575.*

<page 570>

*If no Baptism is to take place [water may be poured into the Font, and] 
the Bishop says*

The Lord be with you.

*People*  And also with you.

*Bishop*  Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.

*People*  It is right to give him thanks and praise.


*Facing the Font, the Bishop says*

We thank you, Almighty God, for the gift of water.  Over it 
the Holy Spirit moved in the beginning of creation.  Through 
it you led the children of Israel out of their bondage in Egypt 
into the land of promise.  In it your Son Jesus received the 
baptism of John and was anointed by the Holy Spirit as the 
Messiah, the Christ, to lead us, through his death and 
resurrection, from the bondage of sin into everlasting life.

We thank you, Father, for the water of Baptism.  In it we are 
buried with Christ in his death.  By it we share in his resurrection. 
Through it we are reborn by the Holy Spirit.  Therefore in 
joyful  obedience to your Son, we bring into his fellowship 
those who come to him in faith, baptizing them in the Name 
of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.

Grant, by the power of your Holy Spirit, that those who here 
are cleansed from sin and born again may continue for ever 
in the risen life of Jesus Christ our Savior.

To him, to you, and to the Holy Spirit, be all honor and 
glory, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop proceeds to the Lectern, lays a hand upon it, and says*

Father, your eternal Word speaks to us through the words of 
Holy Scripture.  Here we read about your mighty acts and 
purposes in history, and about those whom you chose as the 
<page 571> 
agents of your will.  Inspired by the revelation of your Son, 
we seek your present purposes.  Give us ears to hear and 
hearts to obey.

&V.  May the words of our mouth, and the meditation of our heart,

&R.  Be acceptable to you, O Lord our God.

We dedicate the Lectern in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=


*The Bishop goes to the pulpit, lays a hand upon it, and says*

Father, in every age you have spoken through the voices of 
prophets, pastors, and teachers.  Purify the lives and the lips 
of those who speak here, that your word only may be 
proclaimed, and your word only may be heard.

&V.  Your word is a lantern to our feet,

&R.  And a light upon our path.

We dedicate this Pulpit in the Name of the Father, and of the 
Son, and of the Holy Spirit.


<At the Liturgy of the Word>

*Three Lessons are read.  Lay persons read the Old Testament Lesson and 
the Epistle.  The Deacon (or a Priest) reads the Gospel.  Selections are 
ordinarily made from the following list; but on a Major Feast, Sunday, 
or Patronal Feast, selections may be made from the Proper of the Day.*

  =Old Testament=  1 Kings 8:22-23,27b-30,  *or* 2 Samuel 6:12-15,17-19 

  =Psalm=  84, *or* 48

  =Epistle=  Revelation 21:2-7,  *or* 1 Corinthians 3:1-11,16-17 *or* 
1 Peter 2:1-9

<page 572>

*When an instrument of music is to be dedicated, after the Epistle the 
Bishop proceeds to an appropriate place, and says*

Father, your people worship you with many voices and 
sounds, in times of joy and sorrow.  Move us to express the 
wonder, the power, and the glory of your creation in the 
music we make and in the songs we sing.

&V.  Praise him with the sound of the trumpet;

&R.  Praise him with strings and pipe.

We dedicate this (=name of instrument=) in the Name of the 
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.  =Amen.=

*Instrumental music is now played, or a hymn or anthem sung.*

*All then stand for the Gospel, which may be the following*

  Matthew 7:13-14,24-25, *or* Matthew 21:10-14


=Sermon or Address=

*Other Pastoral Offices may follow.*

*If the Apostles' Creed has not already been said, the Nicene Creed is 
now said or sung.*

*The Deacon or a member of the congregation leads the Prayers of the 
People.*

*After a period of silence, the Bishop concludes with the following 
prayers*

Almighty God, all times are your seasons, and all occasions 
invite your tender mercies: Accept our prayers and 
intercessions offered in this place today and in the days to 
come; through Jesus Christ, our Mediator and Advocate.  
=Amen.=

<page 573>

We give you thanks, O God, for the gifts of your people, and 
for the work of many hands, which have beautified this place 
and furnished it for the celebration of your holy mysteries.  
Accept and bless all we have done, and grant that in these 
earthly things we may behold the order and beauty of things 
heavenly; through Jesus christ our Lord. =Amen.=


*The Bishop then says*

Let us now pray for the setting apart of the Altar.


*The Bishop goes to the Table and, with arms extended, says*

We praise you, Almighty and eternal God, that for us and for 
our salvation, you sent your Son Jesus Christ to be born 
among us, that through him we might become your sons and 
daughters.
=Blessed be your Name, Lord God.=

We praise you for his life on earth, and for his death upon the 
cross, through which he offered himself as a perfect sacrifice.
=Blessed be your Name, Lord God.=

We praise you for raising him from the dead, and for exalting 
him to be our great High Priest.
=Blessed be your Name, Lord God.=

We praise you for sending your Holy Spirit to make us holy, 
and to unite us in your holy Church.
=Blessed be your Name, Lord God.=


*The Bishop lays a hand upon the Table, and continues*

<page 574>

Lord God, hear us.  Sanctify this Table dedicated to you.  Let 
it be to us a sign of the heavenly Altar where you saints and 
angels praise you for ever.  Accept here the continual recalling 
of the sacrifice of your Son.  Grant that all who eat and drink 
at this holy Table may be fed and refreshed by his flesh and 
blood, be forgiven for their sins, united with one another, and 
strengthened for your service.
=Blessed be your Name, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; now 
and for endless ages.  Amen.=

*Bells may now be rung and music played.  Members of the congregation 
vest the Altar, place the vessels on it, and light the candles.*


<The Peace>

*The Bishop says to the people*

The peace of the Lord be always with you.

*People*  And also with you.


*Then the bishop and other clergy and the people greet one another.*


<At the Eucharist>

*The service continues with the Offertory.*

*The bishop, or a priest appointed, is the chief celebrant.*

*The Preface of the Dedication of a Church may be used.*

*After the postcommunion prayer, the Bishop blesses the people; and a 
Deacon or Priest dismisses them.*

<page 575>


*Additional Directions*

*The complete form of the service for the Dedication and Consecration of 
a Church is to be used at the opening of a church or chapel.  This 
service does not require that the premises be debt-free or owned.*

*When the clergy and people assemble before the service, they may gather 
out of doors, in the parish house, in a former or neighboring place of 
worship, or in some other building.  When convenient, the procession may 
go around the building(s) to be dedicated and then go to the principal 
door.  Hymns or psalms may be used in procession. The use of portable 
musical instruments is suitable.  If there is an organ, it is 
appropriate that it remain silent until dedicated.  When the weather is 
inclement, or other circumstances make it necessary, the congregation 
may assemble inside the church; but the bishop, other clergy, and 
attendants will enter in procession through the principal door.*

*When a new church is being consecrated, it is desirable that sacred 
vessels, ornaments, and decorations be carried into the building in the 
procession.  Such things as the deed for the property and the blueprint 
of the building(s), the keys, and the tools used in its construction may 
also be carried by appropriate persons.*

*The cross signed on the threshold by the bishop may be marked in 
lasting from (incised, painted, inlaid).  In place of a pastoral staff, 
the foot of a processional cross may be used for the signing.*

*At the dedication of the font, children or other lay persons are to be 
assigned the task of pouring the water.  If Holy Baptism is not to be 
administered, in addition to saying the prayer over the font as given, 
the bishop may consecrate oil of Chrism, as in the service of Holy 
Baptism, for subsequent use in this church.*

*If Baptism is to be administered, the following order is used: The 
Gospel from "At Baptism," page 928; then the service of Holy Baptism, 
beginning with the Presentation of the Candidates, and concluding with 
the reception of the newly baptized.*

<page 576>

*As the furnishings in the church are dedicated, they may be decorated 
by members of the congregation with flowers, candles, hangings, or other 
ornaments.*

*Selected verses of psalms and hymns, or instrumental music may be used 
as the ministers move from one part of the church to another.*

*If one reading stand is to serve as both lectern and pulpit, only one 
of the prayers, and one of the versicles and responses, are used, 
followed by the words of dedication.*

*At the dedication of the lectern, the Bible is brought forward and put 
into place by a donor, or a lay reader, or another suitable person.*

*If there is an address instead of a sermon, it is suitable that a 
warden or other lay person outline the plans of the congregation for 
witness to the Gospel.  The bishop may respond, indicating the place of 
this congregation within the life of the Diocese.*

*The sermon or address may be followed by an appropriate Pastoral 
Office, such as Thanksgiving for the Birth or Adoption of a child, 
Commitment to Christian Service, or Blessing of Oil for the Sick.*

*Any of the usual forms of the Prayers of the People may be used; or 
some other form may be composed for the occasion, having due regard for 
the distinctive nature of the community, and with commemoration of 
benefactors, donors, artists, artisans, and others.*

*For the covering and decoration of the Altar, it is suitable that the 
donors of these furnishings, or other lay persons, bring them forward 
and put them in place.  If incense is to be used, it is appropriate at 
this time.*

*Instead of the Proper Preface suggested, that of the season may be 
used, or one appropriate to the name of the church.*


=For the Dedication of Churches 
and Chapels in Special Cases=

*If the place of worship is also to serve as a school or parish hall, or 
for some other suitable purpose, the service may be adapted to the 
circumstances.*

<page 577>

*If the church is also to be used for regular worship by other Christian 
bodies, it is appropriate that their representatives take part in the 
service, and that the service be adapted.*

*Suitable portions of this service may be used by the bishop, or by a 
priest with the bishop's permission, for dedicating a private chapel or 
oratory.*


=For the Dedication of Furnishings, 
or Parts of a Church or Chapel=

*Relevant portions of the service for the Dedication and Consecration of 
a Church may be used by the bishop or a priest for blessing alterations, 
additions, or new furnishings in a church or chapel.  In each such case, 
the appropriate prayer may be said, or adapted to the circumstances; and 
prayers and Bible readings related to the particular occasion may be 
selected.  When possible, the areas or furnishings should be put into 
use at this time.*

*The blessing of a new font or baptistry should always be done by a
bishop, and should be followed, if possible, by the administration of 
Holy Baptism.*

*The blessing of an Altar is also reserved for a bishop, and is always 
to be followed by the celebration of the Holy Eucharist.*


=For a Church or Chapel Long in Use=

*When buildings have been used for public worship for an extended period 
of time without having been consecrated, the following order may provide 
an opportunity for the congregation to reaffirm its commitment to its 
mission and ministry, and it will be particularly appropriate when a 
congregation attains recognition as a parish.*

  1.  Procession

  2.  Signing of threshold

  3.  Litany of Thanksgiving for a Church, page 578

  4.  Te Deum

<page 578>

  5.  Liturgy of the Word, with sermon or address

  6.  Renewal of Baptismal Vows

  7.  Intercessions, including commemoration of benefactors

  8.  The Peace

  9.  The Eucharist, beginning with the Offertory


<A Litany of Thanksgiving for a Church>

Let us thank God whom we worship here in the beauty of 
holiness.

Eternal God, the heaven of heavens cannot contain you, 
much less the walls of temples made with hands.  Graciously 
receive our thanks for this place, and accept the work of our 
hands, offered to your honor and glory.

For the Church universal, of which these visible buildings are 
the symbol,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For your presence whenever two or three have gathered 
together in your Name,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For this place where we may be still and know that you 
are God,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For making us your children by adoption and grace, and 
refreshing us day by day with the bread of life.
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the knowledge of your will and the grace to perform it,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the fulfilling of our desires and petitions as you see 
best for us,
=We thank you, Lord.=

<page 579>

For the pardon of our sins, which restores us to the company 
of your faithful people,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the blessing of our vows and the crowning of our years 
with your goodness,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the faith of those who have gone before us and for our 
encouragement by their perseverance,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the fellowship of [&N., our patron, and of] all your 
Saints,
=We thank you, Lord.=


*After a brief silence, the Celebrant concludes with the following 
Doxology*

Yours, O Lord, is the greatness, the power, the 
glory, the victory, and the majesty;

*People*  For everything in heaven and on earth is yours.

*Celebrant*  Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom;

*People*  And you are exalted as head over all.  Amen.


*This Litany may also be used on the anniversary of the dedication or 
consecration of a church, or on other suitable occasions.*


<page 809>

<Prayers and Thanksgivings>

<page 810>



<Prayers and Thanksgivings>


  <Prayers>


  =Prayers for the World=

    1.  For Joy in God's Creation

    2.  For all Sorts and Conditions of Men

    3.  For the Human Family

    4.  For Peace 

    5.  For Peace among the Nations

    6.  For our Enemies


  =Prayers for the Church=

    7.  For the Church

    8.  For the Mission of the Church

    9.  For Clergy and People

    10.  For the Diocese

    11.  For the Parish

    12.  For a Church Convention of Meeting

    13.  For the Election of a Bishop or other Minister

    14.  For the Unity of the Church

    15.  For those about to be Baptized or to renew their Baptismal
Covenant

    16.  For Monastic Orders and Vocations

    17.  For Church Musicians and Artists

*Prayers for the Ordained Ministry are on pages 205 and 256.*


  =Prayers for National Life=

    18.  For our Country

    19.  For the President of the United States and all in Civil 
Authority

    20.  For Congress or a State Legislature

    21.  For Courts of Justice

    22.  For Sound Government

<page 811>

    23.  For Local Government

    24.  For an Election

    25.  For those in the Armed Forces of our Country

    26.  For those who Suffer for the sake of Conscience


  =Prayers for the Social Order=

    27.  For Social Justice

    28.  In Times of Conflict

    29.  For Agriculture

    30.  For the Unemployed

    31.  For Schools and Colleges

    32.  For the Good Use of Leisure

    33.  For Cities

    34.  For Towns and Rural Areas

    35.  For the Poor and Neglected

    36.  For the Oppressed

    37.  For Prisons and Correctional Institutions

    38.  For the Right Use of God's Gifts

    39.  For those who Influence Public Opinion

*Prayers for Industry and Labor are on pages 208, 210,
259, and 261.*


  =Prayers for the Natural Order=

    40.  For Knowledge of God's Creation

    41.  For the Conservation of Natural Resources

    42.  For the Harvest of Lands and Waters

    43.  For Rain

    44.  For the Future of the Human Race


  =Prayers for Family and Personal Life=

    45.  For Families

    46.  For the Care of Children

    47.  For Young Persons

    48.  For Those Who Live Alone

    49.  For the Aged

<page 811>

    50.  For a Birthday

    51.  For a Birthday

    52.  For the Absent

    53.  For Travelers

    54.  For those we Love

    55.  For a Person in Trouble or Bereavement

    56.  For the Victims of Addiction

    57.  For Guidance

    58.  For Guidance

    59.  For Quiet Confidence

    60.  For Protection

    61.  A Prayer of Self-Dedication

    62.  A Prayer attributed to St. Frances


*Prayers for the sick are on pages 548-461.*

*Prayers for the dying are on pages 462-465.*

*Prayers for the dead are on pages 202,253,487, and 503.*


  =Other Prayers=

    63.  In the Evening

    64.  Before Worship

    65.  For the Answering of Prayer

    66.  Before Receiving Communion

    67.  After Receiving Communion

    68.  After Worship

    69.  After Sunday

    70.  Grace at Meals

*Prayers for Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and for morning and evening are 
on pages 56, 69, 98, and 123.*


<Thanksgivings>


  =General Thanksgivings

    1.  A General Thanksgiving

    2.  A Litany of Thanksgiving

*The General Thanksgivings is on pages 58 and 101.*


  =Thanksgivings for the Church=

    3.  For the Mission of the Church

    4.  For the Saints and Faithful Departed


  =Thanksgivings for National Life=

    5.  For the Nation

    6.  For Heroic Service


  =Thanksgivings for the Social Order=

    7.  For the Diversity of Races and Cultures


  =Thanksgivings for the Natural Order=

    8.  For the Beauty of the Earth

    9.  For the Harvest


  =Thanksgivings for Family and Personal Life=

    10.  For the Gift of a Child

    11.  For the Restoration of Health

*Thanksgivings for the departed are on pages 487-489 and 503-504.*

*The term "Various Occasions" in the following pages refers to the 
numbered Collects beginning on pages 199 and 251.*

<page 814>



<Prayers and Thanksgivings>


<Prayers>

*For use after the Collects of Morning or Evening Prayer or separately.*

*Prayers originally composed in traditional idiom have not been 
modernized; but, except in certain classical prayers which do not lend 
themselves to modernization, pronouns and verbs have been put in italics 
to assist in rendering them into contemporary speech.*


<Prayers for the World>


=1.  For Joy in God's Creation=

O heavenly Father, =who hast= filled the world with beauty:
Open our eyes to behold =thy= gracious hand in all =thy= works;
that, rejoicing in =thy= whole creation, we may learn to serve
=thee= with gladness; for the sake of him through whom all
things were made, =thy= Son Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=2.  For All Sorts and Conditions of Men=

O God, the creator and preserver of all mankind, we humbly
beseech thee for all sorts and conditions of men; that thou
wouldest be pleased to make they ways known unto them, thy
<page 815>
saving health unto all nations.  More especially we pray for
thy holy Church universal; that it may be so guided and
governed by thy good Spirit, that all who profess and call
themselves Christians may be led into the way of truth, and
hold the faith in unity of spirit, in the bond of peace, and in
righteousness of life.  Finally, we commend to thy fatherly
goodness all those who are in any ways afflicted or distressed,
in mind, body, or estate; [especially those for whom our prayers
are desired]; that it may please thee to comfort and relieve
them according to their several necessities, giving them patience
under their sufferings, and a happy issue out of all their
afflictions.  And this we beg for Jesus Christ's sake.  =Amen.=


=3.  For the Human Family=

O God, you made us in your own image and redeemed us
through Jesus your Son:  Look with compassion on the whole
human family; take away the arrogance and hatred which
infect our hearts; break down the walls that separate us;
unite us in bonds of love; and work through our struggle and
confusion to accomplish your purposes on earth; that, in
your good time, all nations and races may serve you in
harmony around your heavenly throne; through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=


=4.  For Peace=

*See also Various Occasions no. 18.*

Eternal God, in whose perfect kingdom no sword is drawn
but the sword of righteousness, no strength known but the
strength of love:  So mightily spread abroad your Spirit, that
all peoples may be gathered under the banner of the Prince of
Peace, as children of one Father; to whom be dominion and
glory, now and for ever.  =Amen.=

<page 815>

=5.  For Peace Among the Nations=

Almighty God our heavenly Father, guide the nations of the
world into the way of justice and truth, and establish among
them that peace which is the fruit of righteousness, that they
may become the kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
=Amen.=


=6.  For our Enemies=

O God, the Father of all, whose Son commanded us to love
our enemies:  Lead them and us from prejudice to truth:
deliver them and us from hatred, cruelty, and revenge; and in
your good time enable us all to stand reconciled before you,
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Prayers for the Church>

=7.  For the Church=

Gracious Father, we pray for they holy Catholic Church.  Fill it
with all truth, in all truth with all peace.  Where it is corrupt,
purify it; where it is in error, direct it; where in any thing it is
amiss, reform it.  Where it is right, strengthen it; where it is in
want, provide for it; where it is divided, reunite it; for the sake
of Jesus Christ thy Son our Savior.  =Amen.=


=8.  For the Mission of the Church=

*See also the prayers for the Mission of the church on pages 58, 100, 
and 101, and Various Occasions no. 16.*

Everliving God, whose will it is that all should come to you
through your Son Jesus Christ:  Inspire our witness to him,
that all may know the power of his forgiveness and the hope
<page 817>
of his resurrection; who lives and reigns with you and the
Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


=9.  Clergy and People=

Almighty and everlasting God, from whom cometh every
good and perfect gift:  Send down upon our bishops, and
other clergy, and upon the congregations committed to their
charge, the healthful Spirit of thy grace:  and, that they may
truly please thee, pour upon them the continual dew of thy
blessing.  Grant this, O Lord, for the honor of our Advocate
and Mediator, Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


=10.  For the Diocese=

O God, by your grace you have called us in this Diocese to a
goodly fellowship of faith.  Bless our Bishops(s) &N. [and &N.],
and other clergy, and all our people.  Grant that your Word
may be truly preached and truly heard, your Sacraments
faithfully administered and faithfully received.  By your
Spirit, fashion our lives according to the example of your
Son, and grant that we may show the power of your love to
all among whom we live; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.=


=11.  For the Parish=

Almighty and everliving God, ruler of all things in heaven
and earth, hear our prayers for this parish family.  Strengthen
the faithful, arouse the careless, and restore the penitent.
Grant us all things necessary for our common life, and bring
us all to be of one heart and mind within your holy Church;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 818>

=12.  For a Church Convention or Meeting=

*See also Various Occasions no. 13.*

Almighty and everliving God, source of all wisdom and
understanding, be present with those who take counsel
[in &mdash.] for the renewal and mission of your Church.
Teach us in all things to seek first your honor and glory.  Guide
us to perceive what is right, and grant us both the courage to
pursue it and the grace to accomplish it; through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=

=13.  For the Election of a Bishop or other Minister=

Almighty God, giver of every good gift:  Look graciously on
your Church, and so guide the minds of those who shall
choose a bishop for this Diocese (=or=, rector for this parish),
that we may receive a faithful pastor, who will care for your
people and equip us for our ministries; through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=

=14.  For the Unity of the Church=

*See also Various Occasions no. 14, and Collect no. 6 (page 395).*

O God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, our only Savior,
the Prince of Peace:  Give us grace seriously to lay to heart the
great dangers we are in by our unhappy divisions; take away
all hatred and prejudice, and whatever else may hinder us
from godly union and concord; that, as there is but one Body
and one Spirit, one hope of our calling, one Lord, one Faith,
one Baptism, one God and Father of us all, so we may be all
of one heart and of one soul, united in one holy bond of truth
and peace, of faith and charity, and may with one mind and
one mouth glorify =thee=; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.=

<page 819>

=15.  for those about to be Baptized or 
to renew their Baptismal Covenant=

O God, you prepared your disciples for the coming of the
Spirit through the teaching of your Son Jesus Christ:  Make
the hearts and minds of your servants ready to receive the
blessing of the Holy Spirit, that they may be filled with the
strength of his presence; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.=

*For those to be ordained, see Various Occasions no. 15.*


=16.  For Monastic Orders and Vocations=

O Lord Jesus Christ, you became poor for our sake, that we
might be made rich through your poverty:  Guide and sanctify,
we pray, those whom you call to follow you under the vows
of poverty, chastity, and obedience, that by their prayer and
service they may enrich your Church, and by their life and
worship may glorify your Name; for you reign with the Father
and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


=17.  For Church Musicians and Artists=

O God, whom saints and angels delight to worship in
heaven:  Be ever present with your servants who seek through
art and music to perfect the praises offered by your people on
earth; and grant to them even now glimpses of your beauty,
and make them worthy at length to behold it unveiled for
evermore; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 819>


<Prayers for National Life>


=18.  For our Country=

*See also Various Occasions no. 17.*

Almighty God, who hast given us this good land for our
heritage:  We humbly beseech thee that we may always prove
ourselves a people mindful of thy favor and glad to do thy will.
Bless our land with honorable industry, sound learning, and
pure manners.  Save us from violence, discord, and confusion;
from pride and arrogance, and from every evil way.  Defend
our liberties, and fashion into one united people the multitudes
brought hither out of many kindreds and tongues.  Endue
with the spirit of wisdom those to whom in thy Name we entrust
the authority of government, that there may be justice and
peace at home, and that, through obedience to thy law, we
may show forth thy praise among the nations of the earth.
In the time of prosperity, fill our hearts with thankfulness,
and in the day of trouble, suffer not our trust in thee to fail;
all which we ask through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=19.  For the President of the United States and all in Civil
Authority=

O Lord our Governor, whose glory is in all the world:  We
commend this nation to =thy= merciful care, that, being guided
by =thy= Providence, we may dwell secure in =thy= peace.  Grant
to the President of the United States, the Governor of this
State (=or= Commonwealth), and to all in authority, wisdom
and strength to know and to do =thy= will.  Fill them with the
love of truth and righteousness, and make them ever mindful
of their calling to serve this people in =thy= fear; through Jesus
Christ our Lord, who =liveth= and =reigneth= with =thee= and the
Holy Spirit, one God, world without end.  =Amen.=

<page 821>


=20.  For Congress or a State Legislature=

O God, the fountain of wisdom, whose will is good and
gracious, and whose law is truth:  We beseech =thee= so to guide
and bless our Senators and Representatives in Congress
assembled (=or= in the Legislature of this State, =or= Common-
wealth), that they may enact such laws as shall please =thee=,
to the glory of =thy= Name and the welfare of this people;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=21.  For Courts of Justice=

Almighty God, =who sittest= in the throne judging right:  We
humbly beseech =thee= to bless the courts of justice and the
magistrates in all this land; and give =unto= them the spirit of
wisdom and understanding, that they may discern the truth,
and impartially administer the law in the fear of =thee= alone;
through him who shall come to be our Judge, =thy= Son our
Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


=22.  For Sound Government=

*The responses in italics may be omitted.*

O Lord our Governor, bless the leaders of our land, that we
may be a people at peace among ourselves and a blessing to
other nations of the earth.
=Lord, keep this nation under your care.=

To the President and members of the Cabinet, to Governors
of States, Mayors of Cities, and to all in administrative
authority, grant wisdom and grace in the exercise of their
duties.
=Give grace to your servants, O Lord.=

<page 822>

To Senators and Representatives, and those who make our
laws in States, Cities, and Towns, give courage, wisdom, and
foresight to provide for the needs of all our people, and to
fulfill our obligations in the community of nations.
=Give grace to your servants, O Lord.=

To the Judges and officers of our Courts give understanding
and integrity, that human rights may be safeguarded and
justice served.
=Give grace to your servants, O Lord.=

And finally, teach our people to rely on your strength and to
accept their responsibilities to their fellow citizens, that they
may elect trustworthy leaders and make wise decisions for
the well-being of our society; that we may serve you
faithfully in our generation and honor your holy Name.
=For yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and you are exalted as
head above all.  Amen.=


=23.   For Local Government=

Almighty God our heavenly Father, send down upon those
who hold office in this State (Commonwealth, City, County,
Town, &mdash.) the spirit of wisdom, charity, and justice;
that with steadfast purpose they may faithfully serve in their
offices to promote the well-being of all people; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=24.  For an Election=

Almighty God, to whom we must account for all our powers
and privileges:  Guide the people of the United States (*or* of
this community) in the election of officials and representatives;
that, by faithful administration and wise laws, the rights of
all may be protected and our nation be enabled to fulfill your
purposes; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 823>


=25.  For those in the Armed Forces of our Country=

Almighty God, we commend to your gracious care and
keeping all the men and women of our armed forces at home
and abroad.  Defend them day by day with your heavenly
grace; strengthen them in their trials and temptations; give
them courage to face the perils which beset them; and grant
them a sense of your abiding presence wherever they may be;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=26.  For those who suffer for the sake of Conscience=

O God our Father, whose Son forgave his enemies while he
was suffering shame and death: Strengthen those who suffer
for the sake of conscience; when they are accused, save them
from speaking in hate; when they are rejected, save them
from bitterness; when they are imprisoned, save them from
despair; and to us your servants, give grace to respect their
witness and to discern the truth, that our society may be
cleansed and strengthened.  This we ask for the sake of Jesus
Christ, our merciful and righteous Judge.  =Amen.=


<Prayers for the Social Order>

=27.  For Social Justice=

*See also Various Occasions no. 21.*

Grant, O God, that your holy and life-giving Spirit may so
move every human heart [and especially the hearts of the
people of this land], that barriers which divide us may
crumble, suspicions disappear, and hatreds cease; that our
divisions being healed, we may live in justice and peace;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 824>


=28.  In Times of Conflict=

O God, you have bound us together in a common life.  Help us,
in the midst of our struggles for justice and truth, to confront
one another without hatred or bitterness, and to work
together with mutual forbearance and respect; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=29.  For Agriculture=

*See also Various Occasions no. 19.*

Almighty God, we thank you for making the earth fruitful, so
that it might produce what is needed for life:  Bless those who
work in the fields; give us seasonable weather; and grant that
we may all share the fruits for the earth, rejoicing in your
goodness; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*For prayers for Industry and Labor, see Various Occasions no. 19,
no. 24, and no. 25.*


=30.  For the Unemployed=

Heavenly Father, we remember before you those who suffer
want and anxiety from lack of work.  Guide the people of this
land so to use our public and private wealth that all may find
suitable and fulfilling employment, and receive just payment
for their labor; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=31.  For Schools and Colleges=

O Eternal God, bless all schools, colleges, and universities
[and especially &mdash.], that they may be lively centers for
sound learning, new discovery, and the pursuit of wisdom;
and grant that those who teach and those who learn may find
you to be the source of all truth; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 825>

*For Education, see Various Occasions no. 23.*


=32.  For the Good Use of Leisure=

O God, in the course of this busy life, give us times of
refreshment and peace; and grant that we may so use our
leisure to rebuild our bodies and renew our minds, that our
spirits may be opened to the goodness of your creation;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=33.  For Cities=

Heavenly Father, in your Word you have given us a vision of
that holy City to which the nations of the world bring their
glory:  Behold and visit, we pray, the cities of the earth.
Renew the ties of mutual regard which form our civic life.
Send us honest and able leaders.  Enable us to eliminate
poverty, prejudice, and oppression, that peace may prevail
with righteousness, and justice with order, and that men and
women from different cultures and with differing talents may
find with one another the fulfillment of their humanity;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=34.  For Towns and Rural Areas=

Lord Christ, when you came among us, you proclaimed the
kingdom of God in villages, towns, and lonely places:  Grant
that your presence and power may be known throughout this
land.  Have mercy upon all of us who live and work in rural
areas [especially &mdash.]; and grant that all the people
of our nation may give thanks to you for food and drink and
all other bodily necessities of life, respect those who labor to
produce them, and honor the land and the water from which
these good things come.  All this we ask in your holy Name.
=Amen.=

<page 826>


=35.  For the Poor and the Neglected=

Almighty and most merciful God, we remember before you
all poor and neglected persons whom it would be easy for us
to forget:  the homeless and the destitute, the old and the sick,
and all who have none to care for them.  Help us to heal those
who are broken in body or spirit, and to turn their sorrow
into joy.  Grant this, Father, for the love of your Son, who for
our sake became poor, Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=36.  For the Oppresed=

Look with pity, O heavenly Father, upon the people in this
land who live with injustice, terror, disease, and death as
their constant companions.  Have mercy upon us.  Help us to
eliminate our cruelty to these our neighbors.  Strengthen those
who spend their lives establishing equal protection of the law
and equal opportunities for all.  And grant that every one of
us may enjoy a fair portion of the riches of this land; through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=37.  For Prisons and Correctional Institutions=

Lord Jesus, for our sake you were condemned as a criminal:
Visit our jails and prisons with your pity and judgment.
Remember all prisoners, and bring the guilty to repentance
and amendment of life according to your will, and give them
hope for their future.  When any are held unjustly, bring them
release; forgive us, and teach us to improve our justice.
Remember those who work in these institutions; keep them
humane and compassionate; and save them from becoming
brutal or callous.  And since what we do for those in prison,
O Lord, we do for you, constrain us to improve their lot.  All
this we ask for your mercy's sake.  =Amen.=

<page 827>


=38.  For the Right Use of God's Gifts=

Almighty God, whose loving hand =hath= given us all that we
possess:  Grant us grace that we may honor =thee= with our
substance, and, remembering the account which we must one
day give, may be faithful stewards of =thy= bounty, through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=39.  For those who Influence Public Opinion=

Almighty God, you proclaim your truth in every age by many
voices:  Direct, in our time, we pray, those who speak where
many listen and write what many read; that they may do their
part in making the heart of this people wise, its mind sound, and
its will righteous; to the honor of Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*For Social Service, see Various Occasions no. 22*


<Prayers for the Natural Order>

=40.  For Knowledge of God's Creation=

Almighty and everlasting God, you made the universe with
all its marvelous order, its atoms, worlds, and galaxies, and
the infinite complexity of living creatures:  Grant that, as we
probe the mysteries of your creation, we may come to know
you more truly, and more surely fulfill our role in your
eternal purpose; in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=41.  For the Conservation of Natural Resources=

*See also Various Occasions no. 19.*

Almighty God, in giving us dominion over things on earth,
you made us fellow workers in your creation:  Give us wisdom
and reverence so to use the resources of nature, that no one
may suffer from our abuse of them, and that generations yet
to come may continue to praise you for your bounty; through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 828>

=42.  For the Harvest of Lands and Waters=

O gracious Father, =who openest thine= hand and =fillest= all
things living with plenteousness:  Bless the lands and waters,
and multiply the harvests of the world; let =thy= Spirit go
forth, that it may renew the face of the earth; show =thy=
loving-kindness, that our land may give her increase; and
save us from selfish use of what =thou givest=, that men and
women everywhere may give =thee= thanks; through Christ 
our Lord.  =Amen.=


=43.  For Rain=

O God, heavenly Father, who by =thy= Son Jesus Christ
=hast= promised to all those who seek =thy= kingdom and its
righteousness all things necessary to sustain their life:  Send
us, we entreat =thee=, in this time of need, such moderate rain
and showers, that we may receive the fruits of the earth, to
our comfort and to =thy= honor; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=


=44.  For the Future of the Human Race=

O God our heavenly Father, you have blessed us and given us
dominion over all the earth:  Increase our reverence before
the mystery of life; and give us new insight into your purposes
for the human race, and new wisdom and determination in
making provision for its future in accordance with your will;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Prayers for Family and Personal Life>

=45.  For Families=

Almighty God, our heavenly Father, who settest the solitary
in families:  We commend to thy continual care the homes in
which thy people dwell.  Put far from them, we beseech thee,

<page 829>

every root of bitterness, the desire of vainglory, and the pride
of life.  Fill them with faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance,
patience, godliness.  Knit together in constant affection those
who, in holy wedlock, have been made one flesh.  Turn the
hearts of the parents to the children, and the hearts of the
children to the parents; and so enkindle fervent charity among
us all, that we may evermore be kindly affectioned one
to another; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*A prayer for parents is on page 444.*


=46.  For the Care of Children=

Almighty God, heavenly Father, you have blessed us with the
joy and care of children:  Give us calm strength and patient
wisdom as we bring them up, that we may teach them to love
whatever is just and true and good, following the example of
our Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


=47.  For Young Persons=

God our Father, you see your children growing up in an
unsteady and confusing world:  Show them that your ways
give more life than the ways of the world, and that following
you is better than chasing after selfish goals.  Help them to
take failure, not as a measure of their worth, but as a chance
for a new start.  Give them strength to hold their faith in you,
and to keep alive their joy in your creation; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=48.  For Those Who Live Alone=

Almighty God, whose Son had nowhere to lay his head:
Grant that those who live alone may not be lonely in their
solitude, but that, following in his steps, they may find
fulfillment in loving you and their neighbors; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 830>


=49.  For the Aged=

Look with mercy, O God our Father, on all whose increasing
years bring them weakness, distress, or isolation.  Provide for
them homes of dignity and peace; give them understanding
helpers, and the willingness to accept help; and, as their
strength diminishes, increase their faith and their assurance
of your love.  This we ask in the name of Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=


=50.  For a Birthday=

O God, our times are in your hand:  Look with favor, we
pray, on you servant &N. as =he= begins another year.  Grant
that =he= may grow in wisdom and grace, and strengthen =his=
trust in your goodness all the days of =his= life; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=51.  For a Birthday=

Watch over thy child, O Lord, as =his= days increase; bless and
guide =him= wherever =he= may be.  Strengthen =him= when =he=
stands; comfort =him= when discouraged or sorrowful; raise
=him= up if =he= fall; and in =his= heart may thy peace which
passeth understanding abide all the days of =his= life;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=52.  For the Absent=

O God, whose fatherly care =reacheth= to the uttermost parts
of the earth:  We humbly beseech =thee= graciously to behold
and bless whom we love, now absent from us.  Defend
them from all dangers of soul and body; and grant that both
they and we, drawing nearer to =thee=, may be bound together
by =thy= love in the communion of =thy= Holy Spirit, and in the
fellowship of =thy= saints; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
=Amen.=

<page 831>

=53.  For Travelers=

O God, our heavenly Father, whose glory fills the whole
creation, and whose presence we find wherever we go:  Preserve
those who travel [in particular &mdash.]; surround
them with your loving care; protect them from every danger;
and bring them in safety to their journey's end; through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=54.  For those we Love=

Almighty God, we entrust all who are dear to us to =thy=
never-failing care and love, for this life and the life to come,
knowing that =thou art= doing for them better things than we
can desire or pray for; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=55.  For a Person in Trouble or Bereavement=

O merciful Father, who hast taught us in thy holy Word that
thou dost not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men:
Look with pity upon the sorrows of thy servant for whom
our prayers are offered.  Remember =him=, O Lord, in mercy,
nourish =his= soul with patience, comfort =him= with a sense of
thy goodness, lift up thy countenance upon =him=, and give
=him= peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*Prayers for the sick are on pages 458-461.  See also Various Occasions
no. 20*


=56.  For the Victims of Addiction=

O blessed Lord, you ministered to all who came to you:  Look
with compassion upon all who through addiction have lost
their health and freedom.  Restore to them the assurance of
your unfailing mercy; remove from them the fears that beset
them; strengthen them in the work of their recovery; and to
those who care for them, give patient understanding and
persevering love.  =Amen.=

<page 832>

=57.  For Guidance=

Direct us, O Lord, in all our doings with =thy= most gracious
favor, and further us with =thy= continual help; that in all our
works begun, continued, and ended in =thee=, we may glorify
=thy= holy Name, and finally, by =thy= mercy, obtain everlasting
life; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=58.  For Guidance=

O God, by whom the meek are guided in judgment, and
light =riseth= up in darkness for the godly:  Grant us, in all
our doubts and uncertainties, the grace to ask what =thou
wouldest= have us to do, that the Spirit of wisdom may save
us from all false choices, and that in =thy= light we may see
light, and in =thy= straight path may not stumble; through
Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=59.  For Quiet Confidence=

O God of peace, =who hast= taught us that in returning and
rest we shall be saved, in quietness and confidence shall be
our strength:  By the might of =thy= Spirit lift us, we pray =thee=,
to =thy= presence, where we may be still and know that =thou
art= God; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=60.  For Protection=

Assist us mercifully, O Lord, in these our supplications and
prayers, and dispose the way of =thy= servants towards the
attainment of everlasting salvation; that, among all the
changes and chances of this mortal life, they may ever be
defended by =thy= gracious and ready help; through Jesus
Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=61.  A Prayer of Self-Dedication=

Almighty and eternal God, so draw our hearts to =thee=, so
guide our minds, so fill our imaginations, so control our
<page 833>
wills, that we may be wholly =thine=, utterly dedicated =unto
thee=; and then use us, we pray =thee=, as =thou wilt=, and always
to =thy= glory and the welfare of =thy= people; through our Lord
and Savior Jesus Christ.  =Amen.=


=62.  A Prayer attributed to St. Francis=

Lord, make us instruments of your peace.  Where there is
hatred, let us sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where
there is discord, union; where there is doubt, faith; where
there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; where
there is sadness, joy.  Grant that we may not so much seek to
be consoled as to console; to be understood as to understand;
to be loved as to love.  For it is in giving that we receive; it is
in pardoning that we are pardoned; and it is in dying that we
are born to eternal life.  =Amen.=


<Other Prayers>

*Prayers for Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, and for morning and
evening, are on pages 56, 69, 98, and 123.*


=63.  In the Evening=

O Lord, support us all the day long, until the shadows
lengthen, and the evening comes, and the busy world is
hushed, and the fever of life is over, and our work is done.
Then in =thy= mercy, grant us a safe lodging, and a holy rest,
and peace at the last.  =Amen.=


=64.  Before Worship=

O Almighty God, =who pourest= out on all who desire it the
spirit of grace and of supplication:  Deliver us, when we draw
near to =thee=, from coldness of heart and wanderings of mind,
that with steadfast thoughts and kindled affections we may
worship =thee= in spirit and in truth; through Jesus Christ our
Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 834>


=65.  For the Answering of Prayer=

Almighty God, who hast promised to hear the petitions of
those who ask in thy Son's Name:  We beseech thee mercifully
to incline thine ear to us who have now made our prayers and
supplications unto thee; and grant that those things which we
have faithfully asked according to thy will, may effectually be
obtained, to the relief of our necessity, and to the setting forth
of thy glory; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=66.  Before Receiving Communion=

*See also the prayer of Humble Access on page 337.*

Be present, be present, O Jesus, our great High Priest, as you
were present with your disciples, and be know to us in the
breaking of bread; who live and reign with the Father and
the Holy Spirit, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


=67.  After Receiving Communion=

O Lord Jesus Christ, who in a wonderful Sacrament hast left
unto us a memorial of thy passion:  Grant us, we beseech
thee, so to venerate the sacred mysteries of thy Body and 
Blood, that we may ever perceive within ourselves the fruit of
thy redemption; who livest and reignest with the Father and
the Holy Spirit, one God, for ever and ever.  =Amen.=


=68.  After Worship=

Grant, we beseech =thee=, Almighty God, that the words which
we have heard this day with our outward ears, may, through
=thy= grace, be so grafted inwardly in our hearts, that they may
bring forth in us the fruit of good living, to the honor and
praise of =thy= Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 835>

=69.  On Sunday=

O God our King, by the resurrection of your Son Jesus Christ
on the first day of the week, you conquered sin, put death to
flight, and gave us the hope of everlasting life:  Redeem all
our days by this victory; forgive our sins, banish our fears,
make us bold to praise you and to do your will; and steel us
to wait for the consummation of your kingdom on the last
great Day; through the same Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=70.  Grace at Meals=

Give us grateful hearts, our Father, for all =thy= mercies, and
make us mindful of the needs of others; through Jesus Christ
our Lord.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Bless, O Lord, =thy= gifts to our use and us to =thy= service; for
Christ's sake.  =Amen.=

*or this*

Blessed are you, O Lord God, King of the Universe, for you
give us food to sustain our lives and make our hearts glad;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*or this*

For these and all his mercies, God's holy Name be blessed
and praised; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 836>



<Thanksgiving>


<General Thanksgivings>


=1.  A General Thanksgiving=

Accept, O Lord, our thanks and praise for all that you have
done for us.  We thank you for the splendor of the whole
creation, for the beauty of this world, for the wonder of life,
and for the mystery of love.

We thank you for the blessing of family and friends, and for
the loving care which surrounds us on every side.

We thank you for setting us at tasks which demand our best
efforts, and for leading us to accomplishments which satisfy
and delight us.

We thank you also for those disappointments and failures
that lead us to acknowledge our dependence on you alone.

Above all, we thank you for your Son Jesus Christ; for the
truth of his Word and the example of his life; for his steadfast
obedience, by which he overcame temptation; for his dying,
through which he overcame death; and for his rising to life
again, in which we are raised to the life of your kingdom.

Grant us the gift of your Spirit, that we may know him and
make him known; and through him, at all times and in all
places, may give thanks to you in all things.  =Amen.=


=2.  A Litany of Thanksgiving=

*For optional use on Thanksgiving Day, in place of the Prayers of the
People at the Eucharist, or at any time after the Collects at Morning or
Evening Prayer, or separately.*

<page 837>

Let us give thanks to God our Father for all his gifts so
freely bestowed upon us.

For the beauty and wonder of your creation, in earth and
sky and sea.
=We thank you, Lord.=

For all that is gracious in the lives of men and women,
revealing the image of Christ,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For our daily food and drink, our homes and families, and
our friends,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For minds to think, and hearts to love, and hands to serve,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For health and strength to work, and leisure to rest and play,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the brave and courageous, who are patient in suffering
and faithful in adversity,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For all valiant seekers after truth, liberty, and justice,
=We thank you, Lord.=

For the communion of saints, in all times and places,
=We thank you, Lord.=

Above all, we give you thanks for the great mercies and
promises given to us in Christ Jesus our Lord;
=To him be praise and glory, with you, O Father, and the
Holy Spirit, now and for ever.  Amen.=

*See also The General Thanksgiving on pages 58 and 101.*

<page 838>


<Thanksgivings for the Church>

=3.  For the Mission of the Church=

Almighty God, you sent your Son Jesus Christ to reconcile
the world to yourself:  We praise and bless you for those
whom you have sent in the power of the Spirit to preach the
Gospel to all nations.  We thank you that in all parts of the
earth a community of love has been gathered together by
their prayers and labors, and that in every place your servants
call upon your Name; for the kingdom and the power and
the glory are yours for ever.  =Amen.=


=4.  For the Saints and Faithful Departed=

*See also the prayer "O God, the King of Saints," page 489 and 504.*

We give thanks to you, O Lord our God, for all your servants
and witnesses of time past:  for Abraham, the father of believers,
and Sarah his wife; for Moses, the lawgiver, and Aaron, the
priest; for Miriam and Joshua, Deborah and Gideon, and
Samuel with Hannah his mother; for Isaiah and all the prophets;
for Mary, the mother of our Lord; for Peter and Paul and all
the apostles; for Mary and Martha, and Mary Magdalene; for
Stephen, the first martyr, and all the martyrs and saints in
every age and in every land.  In your mercy, O Lord our God,
give us, as you gave to them, the hope of salvation and the
promise of eternal life; through Jesus Christ our Lord, the
first-born of many from the dead.  =Amen.=


<Thanksgivings for National Life>

=5.  For the Nation=

Almighty God, giver of all good things:
We thank you for the natural majesty and beauty of this land.
They restore us, though we often destroy them.
=Heal us.=

<page 839>

We thank you for the great resources of this nation.  They
make us rich, though we often exploit them.
=Forgive us.=

We thank you for the men and women who have made this
country strong.  They are models for us, though we often fall
short of them.
=Inspire us.=

We thank you for the torch of liberty which has been lit in
this land.  It has drawn people from every nation, though we
have often hidden from its light.
=Enlighten us.=

We thank you for the faith we have inherited in all its rich
variety.  It sustains our life, though we have been faithless
again and again.
=Renew us.=

Help us, O Lord, to finish the good work here begun.
Strengthen our efforts to blot out ignorance and prejudice,
and to abolish poverty and crime.  And hasten the day when
all our people, with many voices in one united chorus, will
glorify your holy Name.  =Amen.=


=6.  For Heroic Service=

O Judge of the nations, we remember before you with grateful
hearts the men and women of our country who in the day of
decision ventured much for the liberties we now enjoy.  Grant
that we may not rest until all the people of this land share the
benefits of true freedom and gladly accept its disciplines.  This
we ask in the Name of Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

<page 840>

<Thanksgiving for the Social Order>

=7.  For the Diversity of Races and Cultures=

O God, who created all peoples in your image, we thank you
for the wonderful diversity of races and cultures in this world.
Enrich our lives by ever-widening circles of fellowship, and
show us your presence in those who differ most from us, until
our knowledge of your love is made perfect in our love for all
your children; through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


<Thanksgivings for the Natural Order>

=8.  For the Beauty of the Earth=

We give you thanks, most gracious God, for the beauty of
earth and sky and sea; for the richness of mountains, plains,
and rivers; for the songs of birds and the loveliness of flowers.
We praise you for these good gifts, and pray that we may
safeguard them for our posterity.  Grant that we may continue
to grow in our grateful enjoyment of your abundant creation,
to the honor and glory of your Name, now and for ever.  =Amen.=


=9.  For the Harvest=

Most gracious God, by whose knowledge the depths are
broken up and the clouds drop down the dew:  We yield thee
hearty thanks and praise for the return of seed
time and harvest,
for the increase of the ground and the gathering in of its fruits,
and for all other blessings of thy merciful providence
bestowed upon this nation and people.  And, we beseech thee,
give us a just sense of these great mercies, such as may appear
in our lives by a humble, holy, and obedient walking before
thee all our days; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom,
with thee and the Holy Ghost be all glory and honor, world
without end.  =Amen.=

<page 841>


<Thanksgivings for Family and Personal Life>

=10.  For the Gift of a Child=

*See also the Thanksgiving for a Child on page 439.*

Heavenly Father, you sent; your own Son into this world.  We
thank you for the life of this child, &N., entrusted to our care.
Help us to remember that we are all your children, and so to
love and nurture =him=, that =he= may attain to that full stature
intended for =him= in your eternal kingdom; for the sake of
your dear Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=


=11.  For the Restoration of Health=

Almighty God and heavenly Father, we give =thee= humble
thanks because =thou hast= been graciously pleased to deliver
from =his= sickness =thy= servant &N., in whose behalf we bless
and praise =thy= Name.  Grant, O gracious Father, that =he=,
through =thy= help, may live in this world according to =thy= will,
and also be partaker of everlasting glory in the life to come;
through Jesus Christ our Lord.  =Amen.=

*Thanksgivings for the departed are on pages 487-489 and 503-504.*

<page 842>

<page 843>

<An Outline
of the Faith>

<page 844>


<Concerning the Catechism>


*This catechism is primarily intended for use by parish priests, 
deacons, and lay catechists, to give an outline for instruction.  It is 
a commentary on the creeds, but is not meant to be a complete statement 
of belief and practices; rather, it is a point of departure for the 
teacher, and it is cast in the traditional question and answer form for 
ease of reference.*

*The second use of this catechism is to provide a brief summary of the 
Church's teaching for an inquiring stranger who picks up a Prayer Book.*

*It may also be used to form a simple service; since the matter is 
arranged under headings, it is suitable for selective use, and the 
leader may introduce prayers and hymns as needed.*

<page 845>



<An Outline of the Faith 
commonly called the Catechism>


<Human Nature>


&Q. What are we by nature?

&A. We are part of God's creation, made in the image of God.


&Q. What does it mean to be created in the image of God?

&A. It means that we are free to make choices: to love, to create, to   
reason, and to live in harmony with creation and with God.


&Q. Why then do we live apart from God and out of harmony with   
creation?

&A. From the beginning, human beings have misused their freedom and   
made wrong choices.


&Q. Why do we not use our freedom as we should?

&A. Because we rebel against God, and we put ourselves in the place of   
God.


&Q. What help is there for us?

&A. Our help is in God.


&Q. How did God first help us?

&A. God first helped us by revealing himself and his will, through 
nature and history, through many seers and saints, and especially the 
prophets of Israel.

<page 846>


<God the Father>

&Q. What do we learn about God as creator from the revelation to Israel?

&A. We learn that there is one God, the Father Almighty, creator of 
heaven and earth, of all that is, seen and unseen.


&Q. What does this mean?

&A. This means that the universe is good, that it is the work of a   
single loving God who creates, sustains, and directs it.


&Q. What does this mean about our place in the universe?

&A. It means that the world belongs to its creator; and that we are   
called to enjoy it and to care for it in accordance with God's   
purposes.


&Q. What does this mean about human life?

&A. It means that all people are worthy of respect and honor, because   
all are created in the image of God, and all can respond to the   love 
of God.


&Q. How was this revelation handed down to us?

&A. This revelation was handed down to us through a community created   
by a covenant with God.


<The Old Covenant>

&Q. What is meant by a covenant with God?

&A. A covenant is a relationship initiated by God, to which a body of   
people responds in faith.


&Q. What is the Old Covenant?

&A. The Old Covenant is the one given by God to the Hebrew people.


&Q. What did God promise them?<page 847>

&A. God promised that they would be his people to bring all the nations   
of the world to him.


&Q. What response did God require from the chosen people?

&A. God required the chosen people to be faithful; to love justice, to   
do mercy, and to walk humbly with their God.


&Q. Where is this Old Covenant to be found?

&A. The covenant with the Hebrew people is to be found in the books   
which we call the Old Testament.


&Q. Where in the Old Testament is God's will for us shown most clearly?

&A. God's will for us is shown most clearly in the Ten Commandments.


<The Ten Commandments>

*See pages 317 and 350.*

&Q. What are the Ten Commandments?

&A. The Ten Commandments are the laws give to Moses and the people of   
Israel.


&Q. What do we learn from these commandments?

&A. We learn two things: our duty to God, and our duty to our   
neighbors.


&Q. What is our duty to God?

&A. Our duty is to believe and trust in God; 

  I  To love and obey God and to bring others to know him;  

  II  To put nothing in the place of God;  

  III  To show God respect in thought, word, and deed; 

  IV  And to set aside regular times for worship, prayer, and the study 
of God's ways.

<page 848>

&Q. What is our duty to our neighbors?

&A. Our duty to our neighbors is to love them as ourselves, and to do   
to other people as we wish them to do to us;      

  V  To love, honor, and help our parents and family; to honor those in 
authority, and to meet their just demands;     

  VI  To show respect for the life God has given us; to work and pray 
for peace; to bear no malice, prejudice, or hatred in our hearts; and to 
be kind to all the creatures of God;    

  VII  To use our bodily desires as God intended;

  VIII  To be honest and fair in our dealings; to seek justice, freedom, 
and the necessities of life for all people; and to use our talents and 
possessions as ones who must answer for them to God;     

  IX  To speak the truth, and not to mislead others by our silence;      

  X  To resist temptations to envy, greed, and jealousy; to rejoice in 
other people's gifts and graces; and to do our duty for the love of God, 
who has called us into fellowship with him.


&Q. What is the purpose of the Ten Commandments?

&A. The Ten Commandments were given to define our relationship with God   
and our neighbors.


&Q. Since we do not fully obey them, are they useful at all?

&A. Since we do not filly obey them, we see more clearly our sin and   
our need for redemption.


<Sin and Redemption>


&Q. What is sin?

&A. Sin is the seeking of our own will instead of the will of God, thus   
distorting our relationship with God, with other people, and with   all 
creation.

<page 849>

&Q. How does sin have power over us?

&A. Sin has power over us because we lose our liberty when our   
relationship with God is distorted.


&Q. What is redemption?

&A. Redemption is the act of God which sets us free from the power of   
evil, sin, and death.


&Q. How did God prepare us for redemption?

&A. God sent the prophets to call us back to himself, to show us our   
need for redemption, and to announce the coming of the Messiah.


&Q. What is meant by the Messiah?

&A. The Messiah is one sent by God to free us from the power of sin, so   
that with the help of God we may live in harmony with God, within   
ourselves, with our neighbors, and with all creation.


&Q. Who do we believe is the Messiah?

&A. The Messiah, or Christ, is Jesus of Nazareth, the only Son of God.


<God the Son>


&Q. What do we mean when we say that Jesus is the only Son of God?

&A. We mean that Jesus is the only perfect image of the Father, and   
shows us the nature of God.


&Q. What is the nature of God revealed in Jesus?

&A. God is love.


&Q. What do we mean when we say that Jesus was conceived by the power   
of the Holy Spirit and became incarnate from the Virgin Mary?

&A. We mean that by God's own act, his divine Son received our human   
nature from the Virgin Mary, his mother.   <page 850>
&Q. Why did he take our human nature?

&A. The divine Son became human, so that in him human beings might be   
adopted as children of God, and be made heirs of God's kingdom.


&Q. What is the great importance of Jesus' suffering and death?

&A. By his obedience, even to suffering and death, Jesus made the   
offering which we could not make; in him we are freed from the   power 
of sin and reconciled to God.


&Q. What is the significance of Jesus' resurrection?

&A. By his resurrection, Jesus overcame death and opened for us the way   
of eternal life.


&Q. What do we mean when we say that he descended to the dead?

&A. We mean that he went to the departed and offered them also the   
benefits of redemption.


&Q. What do we mean when we say that he ascended into heaven and is   
seated at the right hand of the Father?

&A. We mean that Jesus took our human nature into heaven where he now   
reigns with the Father and intercedes for us.


&Q. How can we share in his victory over sin, suffering, and death?

&A. We share in his victory when we are baptized into the New Covenant   
and become living members of Christ.


<The New Covenant>

&Q. What is the New Covenant?

&A. The New Covenant is the new relationship with God given by Jesus   
Christ, the Messiah, to the apostles; and, through them, to all who   
believe in him.

<page 851>

&Q. What did the Messiah promise in the New Covenant?

&A. Christ promised to bring us into the kingdom of God and give life   
in all its fullness.


&Q. What response did Christ require?

&A. Christ commanded us to believe in him and to keep his commandments.


&Q. What are the commandments taught by Christ?

&A. Christ taught us the Summary of the Law and gave us the New   
Commandment.


&Q. What is the Summary of the Law?

&A. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your   
soul, and with all your mind.  This is the first and great   
commandment.  And the second is like it: You shall love your   neighbor 
as yourself.


&Q. What is the New Commandment?

&A. The New Commandment is that we love one another as Christ loved us.


&Q. Where may we find what Christians believe about Christ?

&A. What Christians believe about Christ is found in the Scriptures and   
summed up in the creeds.


<The Creeds>

*See pages 53, 96, 326, 327, and 864

&Q. What are the creeds?

&A. The creeds are statements of our basic beliefs about God.


&Q. How many creeds does this Church use in its worship?

&A. This Church uses two creeds: The Apostles' Creed and the Nicene   
Creed.

<page 852>


&Q. What is the Apostles' Creed?

&A. The Apostles' Creed is the ancient creed of Baptism; it is used in   
the Church's daily worship to recall our Baptismal Covenant.


&Q. What is the Nicene Creed?

&A. The Nicene Creed is the creed of the universal Church and is used   
at the Eucharist.


&Q. What, then, is the Athanasian Creed?

&A. The Athanasian Creed is an ancient document proclaiming the nature   
of the Incarnation and of God as Trinity.


&Q. What is the Trinity?

&A. The Trinity is one God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.


<The Holy Spirit>

&Q. What is the Holy Spirit?

&A. The Holy Spirit is the Third Person of the Trinity, God at work in   
the world and in the Church even now.


&Q. How is the Holy Spirit revealed in the Old Covenant?

&A. The Holy Spirit is revealed in the Old Covenant as the giver of   
life, the One who spoke through the prophets.


&Q. How is the Holy Spirit revealed in the New Covenant?

&A. The Holy Spirit is revealed as the Lord who leads us into all truth   
and enables us to grow in the likeness of Christ.


&Q. How do we recognize the presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives?

&A. We recognize the presence of the Holy Spirit when we confess Jesus   
Christ as Lord and are brought into love and harmony with God, with   
ourselves, with our neighbors, and with all creation.

<page 853>

&Q. How do we recognize the truths taught by the Holy Spirit?

&A. We recognize truths to be taught by the Holy Spirit when they are   
in accord with the Scriptures.


<The Holy Scriptures>

&Q. What are the Holy Scriptures?

&A. The Holy Scriptures, commonly called the Bible, are the books of   
the Old and New Testaments; other books, called the Apocrypha, are   
often included in the Bible.


&Q. What is the Old Testament?

&A. The Old Testament consists of books written by the people of the   
Old Covenant, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, to show God   at 
work in nature and history.


&Q. What is the New Testament?

&A. The New Testament consists of books written by the people of the   
New Covenant, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, to set   forth 
the life and teachings of Jesus and to proclaim the Good News   of the 
Kingdom for all people.


&Q. What is the Apocrypha?

&A. The Apocrypha is a collection of additional books written by people   
of the Old Covenant, and used in the Christian Church.


&Q. Why do we call the Holy Scriptures the Word of God?

&A. We call them the Word of God because God inspired their human   
authors and because God still speaks to us through the Bible.


&Q. How do we understand the meaning of the Bible?

&A. We understand the meaning of the Bible by the help of [ Page 854>   
the Holy Spirit, who guides the Church in the true interpretation   of 
the Scriptures.


<The Church>

&Q. What is the Church?

&A. The Church is the community of the New Covenant.


&Q. How is the Church described in the Bible?

&A. The Church is described as the Body of which Jesus Christ is the   
Head and of which all baptized persons are members.  It is called   the 
People of God, the New Israel, a holy nation, a royal   priesthood, and 
the pillar and ground of truth.


&Q. How is the Church described in the creeds?

&A. The Church is described as one, holy, catholic, and apostolic.


&Q. Why is the Church described as one?

&A. The Church is one, because it is one Body, under one Head, our Lord   
Jesus Christ.


&Q. Why is the Church described as holy?

&A. The Church is holy, because the Holy Spirit dwells in it,   
consecrates its members, and guides them to do God's work.


&Q. Why is the Church described as catholic?

&A. The Church is catholic, because it proclaims the whole Faith to all   
people, to the end of time.


&Q. Why is the Church described as apostolic?

&A. The Church is apostolic, because it continues in the teaching and   
fellowship of the apostles and is sent to carry out Christ's   mission 
to all people.

<page 855>

&Q. What is the mission of the Church?

&A. The mission of the Church is to restore all people to unity with   
God and each other in Christ.


&Q. How does the Church pursue its mission?

&A. The Church pursues its mission as it prays and worships, proclaims   
the Gospel, and promotes justice, peace, and love.


&Q. Through whom does the Church carry out its mission?

&A. The church carries out its mission through the ministry of all its   
members.


<The Ministry>

&Q. Who are the ministers of the Church?

&A. The ministers of the Church are lay persons, bishops, priests, and   
deacons.


&Q. What is the ministry of the laity?

&A. The ministry of lay persons is the represent Christ and his Church;   
to bear witness to him wherever they may be; and, according to the   
gifts given them, to carry on Christ's work of reconciliation in   the 
world; and to take their place in the life, worship, and   governance of 
the Church.


&Q. What is the ministry of a bishop?

&A. The minsitry of a bishop is to represent Christ and his Church,   
particularly as apostle, chief priest, and pastor of a diocese; to   
guard the faith, unity, and discipline of the whole Church; to   
proclaim the Word of God; to act in Christ's name for the   
reconciliation of the world and the building up of the Church; and   to 
ordain others to continue Christ's ministry.

<page 856>

&Q. What is the ministry of a priest or presbyter?

&A. The ministry of a priest is to represent Christ and his Church,   
particularly as pastor to the people; to share with the bishop in   the 
overseeing of the Church; to proclaim the Gospel; to administer   the 
sacraments; and to bless and declare pardon in the name of God.


&Q. What is the ministry of a deacon?

&A. The ministry of a deacon is to represent Christ and his Church,   
particularly as a servant of those in need; and to assist bishops   and 
priests in the proclamation of the Gospel and the   administration of 
the sacraments.


&Q. What is the duty of all Christians?

&A. The duty of all Christians is to follow Christ; to come together   
week by week for corporate worship; and to work, pray, and give for   
the spread of the kingdom of God.


<Prayer and Worship>

&Q. What is prayer?

&A. Prayer is responding to God, by thought and by deeds, with or   
without words.


&Q. What is Christian Prayer?

&A. Christian prayer is response of God the Father, through Jesus   
Christ, in the power of the Holy Spirit.


&Q. What prayer did Christ teach us?

&A. Our Lord gave us the example of prayer knows as the Lord's Prayer.   
*See page 364*


&Q. What are the principle kinds of prayer?

&A. The principle kinds of prayer are adoration, praise, thanksgiving,   
penitence, oblation, intercession, and petition.

<page 857>


&Q. What is adoration?

&A. Adoration is the lifting up of the heart and mind to God, asking   
nothing but to enjoy God's presence.


&Q. Why do we praise God?

&A. We praise God, not to obtain anything, but because God's Being   
draws praise from us.


&Q. For what do we offer thanksgiving?

&A. Thanksgiving is offered to God for all the blessings of this life,   
for our redemption, and for whatever draws us closer to God.


&Q. What is penitence?

&A. In penitence, we confess our sins and make restitution where   
possible, with the intention to amend our lives.


&Q. What is prayer of oblation?

&A. Oblation is an offering of ourselves, our lives and labors, in   
union with Christ, for the purposes of God.


&Q. What are intercession and petition?

&A. Intercession brings before god the needs of others; in petition, we   
present our own needs, that God's will may be done.


&Q. What is corporate worship?

&A. In corporate worship, we unite ourselves with others to acknowledge   
the holiness of God, to hear God's Word, to offer prayer, and to   
celebrate the sacraments.


<The Sacraments>


&Q. What are the sacraments?

&A. The sacraments are outward and visible signs of inward and   
spiritual grace, given by Christ as sure and certain means by which   we 
receive that grace.

<page 858>

&Q. What is grace?

&A. Grace is God's favor toward us, unearned and undeserved; by grace   
God forgives our sins, enlightens our minds, stirs our hearts, and   
strengthens our wills.


&Q. What are the two great sacraments of the Gospel?

&A. The two great sacraments given by Christ to his Church are Holy   
Baptism and the Holy Eucharist.


<Holy Baptism>

&Q. What is Holy Baptism?

&A. Holy Baptism is the sacrament by which God adopts us as his   
children and makes us members of Christ's Body, the Church, and   
inheritors of the kingdom of God.


&Q. What is the outward and visible sign in Baptism?

&A. The outward and visible sign in Baptism is water, in which the   
person is baptized in the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and   of 
the Holy Spirit.


&Q. What is the inward and spiritual grace in Baptism?

&A. The inward and spiritual grace in Baptism is union with Christ in   
his death and resurrection, birth into God's family the Church,   
forgiveness of sins, and new life in the Holy Spirit.


&Q. What is required of us at Baptism?

&A. It is required that we renounce Satan, repent of our sins, and   
accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior.


&Q. Why then are infants baptized?

&A. Infants are baptized so that they can share citizenship in the   
Covenant, membership in Christ, and redemption by God.


&Q. How are the promises for infants made and carried out?<page 859>

&A. Promises are made for them by their parents and sponsors, who   
guarantee that the infants will be brought up within the Church, to   
know Christ and be able to follow him.


<The Holy Eucharist>

&Q. What is the Holy Eucharist?

&A. The Holy Eucharist is the sacrament commanded by Christ for the   
continual remembrance of his life, death, and resurrection, until   his 
coming again.


&Q. Why is the Eucharist called a sacrifice?

&A. Because the Eucharist, the Church's sacrifice of praise and   
thanksgiving, is the way by which the sacrifice of Christ is made   
present, and in which he unites us to his one offering of himself.


&Q. By what other names is this service known?

&A. The Holy Eucharist is called the Lord's Supper, and Holy Communion;   
it is also known as the Divine Liturgy, the Mass, and the Great   
Offering.


&Q. What is the outward and visible sign in the Eucharist?

&A. The outward and visible sign in the Eucharist is bread and wine,   
give and received according to Christ's command.


&Q. What is the inward and spiritual grace given in the Eucharist?

&A. The inward and spiritual grace in the Holy Communion is the Body   
and Blood of Christ give to his people, and received by faith.


&Q. What are the benefits which we receive in the Lord's Supper?

&A. The benefits we receive are the forgiveness of our sins, [ Page 860>   
the strengthening of our union with Christ and one another, and the   
foretaste of the heavenly banquet which is our nourishment in   eternal 
life.


&Q. What is required of us when we come to the Eucharist?

&A. It is required that we should examine our lives, repent of our   
sins, and be in love and charity with all people.


<Other Sacramental Rites>

&Q. What other sacramental rites evolved in the Church under the   
guidance of the Holy Spirit?

&A. Other sacramental rites which evolved in the Church include   
confirmation, ordination, holy matrimony, reconciliation of a   
penitent, and unction.


&Q. How do they differ from the two sacraments of the Gospel?

&A. Although they are means of grace, they are not necessary for all   
persons in the same way that Baptism and the Eucharist are.


&Q. What is Confirmation?

&A. Confirmation is the rite in which we express a mature commitment to   
Christ, and receive strength from the Holy Spirit through prayer   and 
the laying on of hands by a bishop.


&Q. What is required of those to be confirmed?

&A. It is required of those to be confirmed that they have been   
baptized, are sufficiently instructed in the Christian Faith, are   
penitent for their sins, and are ready to affirm their confession   of 
Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord.


&Q. What is Ordination?

&A. Ordination is the rite in which God gives authority and the grace   
of the Holy Spirit to those being made bishops,
<page 860>
priests, and deacons, through prayer and the laying on of hands by   
bishops.


&Q. What is Holy Matrimony?

&A. Holy Matrimony is Christian marriage, in which the woman and man   
enter into a life-long union, make their vows before God and the   
Church, and receive the grace and blessing of God to help them   fulfill 
their vows.


&Q. What is Reconciliation of a Penitent?

&A. Reconciliation of a Penitent, or Penance, is the rite in which   
those who repent of their sins may confess them to God in the   presence 
of a priest, and receive the assurance of pardon and the   grace of 
absolution.


&Q. What is Unction of the Sick?

&A. Unction is the rite of anointing the sick with oil, or the laying   
on of hands, by which God's grace is given for the healing of   spirit, 
mind, and body.


&Q. Is God's activity limited to these rites?

&A. God does not limit himself to these rites; they are patterns of   
countless ways by which God uses material things to reach out to   us.


&Q. How are the sacraments related to our Christian hope?

&A. Sacraments sustain our present hope and anticipate its future   
fulfillment.


<The Christian Hope>

&Q. What is the Christian hope?

&A. The Christian hope is to live with confidence in newness and   
fullness of life, and to await the coming of Christ in glory, and   the 
completion of God's purpose for the world.

<page 862>


&Q. What do we mean by the coming of Christ in glory?

&A. By the coming of Christ in glory, we mean that Christ will come,   
not in weakness but in power, and will make all things new.


&Q. What do we mean by heaven and hell?

&A. By heaven, we mean eternal life in our enjoyment of God; by hell,   
we mean eternal death in our rejection of God.


&Q. Why do we pray for the dead?

&A. We pray for them, because we still hold them in our love, and   
because we trust that in God's presence those who have chosen to   serve 
him will grow in his love, until they see him as he is.


&Q. What do we mean by the last judgment?

&A. We believe that Christ will come in glory and judge the living and   
the dead.


&Q. What do we mean by the resurrection of the body?

&A. We mean that God will raise us from death in the fullness of our   
being, that we may live with Christ in the communion of the saints.


&Q. What is the communion of saints?

&A. The communion of saints is the whole family of God, the living and   
the dead, those whom we love and those whom we hurt, bound together   in 
Christ by sacrament, prayer, and praise.


&Q. What do we mean by everlasting life?

&A. By everlasting life, we mean a new existence, in which we are united   
with all the people of God, in the joy of fully knowing and loving   God 
and each other.


&Q. What, then, is our assurance as Christians?

&A. Our assurance as Christians is that nothing, not even death, shall   
separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.   
Amen.

<page 863>

<Historical
Documents
of the Church>

<page 864>

<Definition of the Union of the Divine
and Human Natures in the Person of Christ>

=Council of Chalcedon, 451 A.D., Act V=

Therefore, following the holy fathers, we all with one accord teach men 
to acknowledge one and the same Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, at once 
complete in Godhead and complete in manhood, truly God and truly man, 
consisting also of a reasonable soul and body; of one substance 
(homoousios) with the Father as regards his Godhead, and at the same 
time of one substance with us as regards his manhood; like us in all 
respects, apart from sin; as regards his Godhead, begotten of the Father 
before the ages, but yet as regards his manhood begotten, for us men and 
for our salvation, of Mary the Virgin, the God-bearer (Theotokos); one 
and the same Christ, Son, Lord, Only-begotten, recognized in two 
natures, without confusion, without change, without division, without 
separation; the distinction of natures being in no way annulled by the 
union, but rather the characteristics of each nature being preserved and 
coming together to form one person and subsistence, not as parted or 
separated into two persons, but one and the same Son and Only-begotten 
God the Word, Lord Jesus Christ; even as the prophets from earliest 
times spoke of him, and our Lord Jesus Christ himself taught us, and the 
creed of the Fathers has handed down to us.



<Quicunque Vult>

=commonly called=

<The Creed of Saint Athanasius>

Whosoever will be saved, before all things it is necessary that he  hold 
the Catholic Faith.

Which Faith except everyone do keep whole and undefiled, without doubt  
he shall perish everlastingly.

And the Catholic Faith is this: That we worship one God in Trinity,  and 
Trinity in Unity, neither confounding the Persons, nor dividing  the 
Substance.

For there is one Person of the Father, another of the Son, and another  
of the Holy Ghost.

But the Godhead of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, is  
all one, the Glory equal, the Majesty co-eternal.

Such as the Father is, such is the Son, and such is the Holy Ghost.

The Father uncreate, the Son uncreate, and the Holy Ghost uncreate.

The Father incomprehensible, the Son incomprehensible, and the Holy  
Ghost incomprehensible.

The Father eternal, the Son eternal, and the Holy Ghost eternal.

And yet they are not three eternals, but one eternal.

As also there are not three incomprehensibles, nor three uncreated,  but 
one uncreated, and one incomprehensible.

So likewise the Father is Almighty, the Son Almighty, and the Holy  
Ghost Almighty.

And yet they are not three Almighties, but one Almighty.

<page 865>

So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God.

And yet they are not three Gods, but one God.

So likewise the Father is Lord, the Son Lord, and the Holy Ghost Lord.

And yet not three Lords, but one Lord.

For like as we are compelled by the Christian verity to acknowledge  
every Person by himself to be both God and Lord,

So are we forbidden by the Catholic Religion, to say, There be three  
Gods, or three Lords.

The Father is made of none, neither created, nor begotten.

The Son is of the Father alone, not made, nor created, but begotten.

The Holy Ghost is of the Father and of the Son, neither made, nor  
created, nor begotten, but proceeding.

So there is one Father, not three Fathers; one Son, not three Sons;  one 
Holy Ghost, not three Holy Ghosts.

And in this Trinity none is afore, or after other; none is greater, or  
less than another;

But the whole three Persons are co-eternal together and co-equal.

So that in all things, as is aforesaid, the Unity in Trinity and the  
Trinity in Unity is to be worshipped.

He therefore that will be saved is must think thus of the Trinity.  


Furthermore, it is necessary to everlasting salvation that he also  
believe rightly the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.

For the right Faith is, that we believe and confess, that our Lord  
Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is God and Man;

God, of the substance of the Father, begotten before the worlds; and  
Man of the substance of his Mother, born in the world;

Perfect God and perfect Man, of a reasonable soul and human flesh  
subsisting.

Equal to the Father, as touching his Godhead; and inferior to the  
Father, as touching his manhood;

Who, although he be God and Man, yet he is not two, but one Christ;

One, not by conversion of the Godhead into flesh but by taking of the  
Manhood into God;

One altogether; not by confusion of Substance, but by unity of  Person.

For as the reasonable soul and flesh is one man, so God and Man is one  
Christ;

Who suffered for our salvation, descended into hell, rose again the  
third day from the dead.

He ascended into heaven, he sitteth at the right hand of the Father,  
God Almighty, from whence he will come to judge the quick and the  dead.

At whose coming all men will rise again with their bodies and shall  
give account for their own works.

And they that have done good shall go into life everlasting; and they  
that have done evil into everlasting fire.

This is the Catholic Faith, which except a man believe faithfully, he  
cannot be saved.

<page 866>


<Preface>

<The First Book of Common Prayer (1549)>

There was never any thing by the wit of man so well devised, or so sure 
established, which in continuance of time hath not been corrupted: as, 
among other things, it may plainly appear by the common prayers in the 
Church, commonly called Divine Service: the first original and ground 
whereof, if a man would search out by the ancient fathers, he shall 
find, that the same was not ordained, but of a good purpose, and for a 
great advancement of godliness: For they so ordered the matter, that all 
the whole Bible (or the greatest part thereof) should be read over once 
in the year, intending thereby, that the Clergy, and especially such as 
were Ministers of the congregation, should (by often reading, and 
meditation of God's word) be stirred up to godliness themselves, and be 
more able to exhort others by wholesome doctrine, and to confute them 
that were adversaries to the truth.  And further, that the people (by 
daily hearing of holy Scripture read in the Church) should continually 
profit more and more in the knowledge of God, and be the more inflamed 
with the love of his true religion.

But these many years passed, this godly and decent order of the ancient 
fathers hath been so altered, broken, and neglected, by planting in 
uncertain stories, Legends, Responds, Verses, vain repetitions, 
Commemorations, and Synodals, that commonly when any book of the Bible 
was begun, before three or four Chapters were read out, all the rest 
were unread.  And in this sort the book of Isaiah was begun in Advent, 
and the book of Genesis in Septuagesima; but they were only begun, and 
never read through.  After a like sort were other books of holy 
Scripture used.  And moreover, whereas St. Paul would have such language 
spoken to the people in the Church, as they might understand, and have 
profit by hearing the same, the Service in the Church of England (these 
many years) hath been read in Latin to the people, which they understood 
not; so that they have heard with their ears only; and their hearts, 
spirit, and mind, have not been edified thereby.  And furthermore, 
notwithstanding that the ancient fathers had divided the Psalms into 
seven portions, whereof every one was called a nocturn, now of late time 
a few of them have been daily said (and oft repeated), and the rest 
utterly omitted.  Moreover, the number and hardness of the Rules called 
the Pie, and the manifold changings of the service, was the cause, that 
to turn the Book only, was so hard and intricate a matter, that many 
times, there was more business to find out what should be read, than to 
read it when it was found out.

These inconveniences therefore considered, here is set forth such an 
order, whereby the same shall be redressed.  And for a readiness in this 
matter, here is drawn out a Kalendar for that purpose, which is plain 
and easy to be understood, wherein (so much as may be) the reading of 
holy Scripture is so set forth, that all things shall be done in order, 
without breaking one piece thereof from another.  For this cause be cut 
off Anthems, Responds, Invitatories, and such like things, as did break 
the continual course of the reading of the Scripture.

Yet because there is no remedy, but that of necessity there must be some 
rules: therefore certain rules are here set forth, which, as they be few 
in number; so they be plain and easy to be understood.  So that here you 
have an order for prayer (as touching the reading of the holy 
Scripture), much agreeable to the mind and purpose of the old fathers, 
and a great deal more profitable and commodious, than that which of late 
was used.  It is more profitable, because here are left out many things, 
whereof some be untrue, some uncertain, same vain
<page 867>
and superstitious: and is ordained nothing to be read, but the very pure 
word of God, the holy Scriptures, or that which is evidently grounded 
upon the same; and that in such a language and order as is most easy and 
plain for the understanding, both of the readers and hearers.  It is 
also more commodious, both for the shortness thereof, and for the 
plainness of the order, and for that the rules be few and easy.  
Furthermore, by this order the curates shall need none other books for 
their public service, but this book and the Bible: by the means whereof, 
the people shall not be at so great charge for books, as in time past 
they have been.

And where heretofore, there hath been great diversity in saying and 
singing in churches within this realm: some following Salisbury use, 
some Hereford use, some the use of Bangor, some of York, and some of 
Lincoln: now from henceforth, all the whole realm shall have but one 
use.  And if any would judge this way more painful, because that all 
things must be read upon the book, whereas before, by reason of so often 
repetition, they could say many things by heart: if those men will weigh 
their labor with the profit in knowledge, which daily they shall obtain 
by reading upon the book, they will not refuse the pain, in 
consideration of the great profit that shall ensue thereof.

And forasmuch as nothing else, almost, be so plainly set forth, but 
doubts may arise in the use and practicing of the same: to appease all 
such diversity (if any arise), and for the resolution of all doubts, 
concerning the manner how to understand, do, and execute, the things 
contained in this book: the parties that so doubt, or diversely take any 
thing, shall always resort to the Bishop of the Diocese, who by his 
discretion shall take order for the quieting and appeasing of the same; 
so that the same order be not contrary to any thing contained in this 
book.

Though it be appointed in the afore written preface, that all things 
shall be read and sung in the church in the English tongue, to the end 
that the congregation may be thereby edified: yet it is not meant, but 
when men say Matins and Evensong privately, they may say the same in any 
language that they themselves do understand.  Neither that any man shall 
be bound to the saying of them, but such as from time to time, in 
Cathedral and Collegiate Churches, parish Churches, and Chapels to the 
same annexed, shall serve the congregation.


<Articles of Religion>

As established by the Bishops, the Clergy, and the Laity of the 
Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of America, in 
Convention, on the twelfth day of September, in the Year of our Lord, 
1801.


<I.  Of Faith in the Holy Trinity.>

There is but one living and true God, everlasting, without body, parts, 
or passions; of infinite power, wisdom, and goodness; the Maker, and 
Preserver of all things both visible and invisible.  And in the unity of 
this Godhead there be three Persons, of one substance, power, and 
eternity; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.

<page 868>


<II.  Of the Word or Son of God, which was made very Man.>

The Son, which is the Word of the Father, begotten from everlasting of 
the Father, the very and eternal God, and of one substance with the 
Father, took Man's nature in the womb of the blessed Virgin, of her 
substance: so that two whole and perfect Natures, that is to say, the 
Godhead and Manhood, were joined together in one Person, never to be 
divided, whereof is one Christ, very God, and very Man; who truly 
suffered, was crucified, dead, and buried, to reconcile his Father to 
us, and to be a sacrifice, not only for original guilt, but also for 
actual sins of men.


<III.  Of the going down of Christ into Hell.>

As Christ died for us, and was buried; so also it is to be believed, 
that he went down into Hell.


<IV.  Of the Resurrection of Christ.>

Christ did truly rise again from death, and took again his body, with 
flesh, bones, and all things appertaining to the perfection of Man's 
nature; wherewith he ascended into Heaven, and there sitteth, until he 
return to judge all Men at the last day.


<V.  Of the Holy Ghost.>

The Holy Ghost, proceeding from the Father and the Son, is of one 
substance, majesty, and glory, with the Father and the Son, very and 
eternal God.


<VI.  Of the Sufficiency of the Holy Scriptures for Salvation.>

Holy Scripture containeth all things necessary to salvation: so that 
whatsoever is not read therein, nor may be proved thereby, is not to be 
required of any man, that it should be believed as an article of the 
Faith, or be thought requisite or necessary to salvation.  In the name 
of the Holy Scripture we do understand those canonical Books of the Old 
and New Testament, of whose authority was never any doubt in the Church.

<Of the Names and Number of the Canonical Books>

  Genesis,

  Exodus,

  Leviticus,

  Numbers,

  Deuteronomy,

  Joshua,

  Judges,

  Ruth,

  The First Book of Samuel,

  The Second Book of Samuel,

  The First Book of Kings,

  The Second Book of Kings,

  The First Book of Chronicles,

  The Second Book of Chronicles,

  The First Book of Esdras,

  The Second Book of Esdras,

  The Book of Esther,

  The Book of Job,

  The Psalms,

  The Proverbs,

  Ecclesiastes or Preacher,

  Cantica, or Songs of Solomon,

  Four Prophets the greater,

  Twelve Prophets the less.

And the other Books (as Hierome saith) the Church doth read for example 
of life and instruction of manners; but yet doth it not apply them to 
establish any doctrine; such are these following:

  The Third Book of Esdras,

  The Fourth Book of Esdras,

  The Book of Tobias,

  The Book of Judith,

  The rest of the Book of Esther,

  The Book of Wisdom,

  Jesus the Son of Sirach,

  Baruch the Prophet,

  The Song of the Three Children,

  The Story of Susanna,

  Of Bel and the Dragon,

  The Prayer of Manasses,

  The First Book of Maccabees,

  The Second Book of Maccabees.

  All the Books of the New Testament, as they are commonly received, we 
do receive, and account them Canonical.


<VII.  Of the Old Testament.>

The Old Testament is not contrary to the New: for both in the Old and 
New Testament everlasting life is offered to Mankind by Christ, who is 
the only Mediator between God and Man, being both God and Man.  
Wherefore they are not to be heard, which feign that the old Fathers did 
look only for transitory promises.  Although the Law given from God by 
Moses, as touching Ceremonies and Rites, do not bind Christian men, nor 
the Civil precepts thereof ought of necessity to be received in any 
commonwealth; yet notwithstanding, no Christian man whatsoever is free 
from the obedience of the Commandments which are called Moral.


<VIII.  Of the Creeds.>

The Nicene Creed, and that which is commonly called the Apostles' Creed, 
ought thoroughly to be received and believed: for they may be proved by 
most certain warrants of Holy Scripture.

The original Article given Royal assent in 1571 and reaffirmed in 1662, 
was entitled, "Of the Three Creeds; and began as follows, "The Three 
Creeds, Nicene Creed, Athanasius's Creed, and that which is commonly 
called the Apostles' Creed..."


<IX.  Of Original or Birth Sin.>

Original sin standeth not in the following of Adam, (as the Pelagians do 
vainly talk;) but it is the fault and corruption of the Nature of every 
man, that naturally is engendered of the offspring of Adam; whereby man 
is very far gone from original righteousness, and is of his own nature 
inclined to evil, so that the flesh lusteth always contrary to the 
Spirit; and therefore in every person born into this world, it deserveth 
God's wrath and damnation.  And this infection of nature doth remain, 
yea in them that are regenerated; whereby the lust of the flesh, called 
in Greek, *fro/nhma sarko/s*, (which some do expound the wisdom, some 
sensuality, some the affection, some the desire, of the flesh), is not 
subject to the Law of God.  And although there is no condemnation for 
them that believe and are baptized; yet the Apostle doth confess, that 
concupiscence and lust hath of itself the nature of sin.


<X.  Of Free Will.>

The condition of Man after the fall of Adam is such, that he cannot turn 
and prepare himself, by his own natural strength and good works, to 
faith, and calling upon God.  Wherefore we have no power to do good 
works pleasant and acceptable to God, without the grace of God by Christ 
preventing us, that we may have a good will, and working with us, when 
we have that good will.

<page 870>


<XI.  Of the Justification of Man.>

We are accounted righteous before God, only for the merit of our Lord 
and Saviour Jesus Christ by Faith, and not for our own works or 
deservings.  Wherefore, that we are justified by Faith only, is a most 
wholesome Doctrine, and very full of comfort, as more largely expressed 
in the Homily of Justification.


<XII.  Of Good Works.>

Albeit that Good Works, which are the fruits of Faith, and follow after 
Justification, cannot put away our sins, and endure the severity of 
God's judgment; yet are they pleasing and acceptable to God in Christ, 
and do spring out necessarily of a true and lively Faith; insomuch that 
by them a lively Faith may be as evidently known as a tree discerned by 
the fruit.


<XIII.  Of Works before Justification.>

Works done before the grace of Christ, and the Inspiration of the 
Spirit, are not pleasant to God, forasmuch as they spring not of faith 
in Jesus Christ; neither do they make men meet to receive grace, or (as 
the School-authors say) deserve grace of congruity: yea rather, for that 
they are not done as God hath willed and commanded them to be done, we 
doubt not but they have the nature of sin.


<XIV.  Of Works of Supererogation.>

Voluntary Works besides, over and above, God's Commandments, which they 
call Works of Supererogation, cannot be taught without arrogancy and 
impiety: for by them men do declare, that they not only render unto God 
as much as they are bound to, but that they do more for his sake, than 
of bounden duty is required: whereas Christ saith plainly, When ye have 
done all that are commanded to you, say, We are unprofitable servants.


<XV.  Of Christ alone without Sin.>

Christ in the truth of our nature was made like unto us in all things, 
sin only except, from which he was clearly void, both in his flesh, and 
in his spirit.  He came to be the Lamb without spot, who, by sacrifice 
of himself once made, should take away the sins of the world; and sin 
(as Saint John saith) was not in him.  But all we the rest, although 
baptized, and born again in Christ, yet offend in many things; and if we 
say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.


<XVI.  Of Sin after Baptism.>

Not every deadly sin willingly committed after Baptism is sin against 
the Holy Ghost, and unpardonable.  Wherefore the grant of repentance is 
not be denied to such as fall into sin after Baptism.  After we have 
received the Holy Ghost, we may depart from grace given, and fall into 
sin, and by the grace of God we may arise again, and amend our lives.  
And therefore they are to be condemned, which say, they can no more sin 
as long as they live here, or deny the place of forgiveness to such as 
truly repent.

<page 871>


<XVII.  Of Predestination and Election>

Predestination to Life is the everlasting purpose of God, whereby 
(before the foundations of the world were laid) he hath constantly 
decreed by his counsel secret to us, to deliver from curse and damnation 
those whom he hath chosen in Christ out of mankind, and to bring them by 
Christ to everlasting salvation, as vessels made to honour.  Wherefore, 
they which be endued with so excellent a benefit of God, be called 
according to God's purpose by his Spirit working in due season: they 
through Grace obey the calling: they be justified freely: they be made 
sons of God by adoption: they be made like the image of his only-
begotten Son Jesus Christ: they walk religiously in good works, and at 
length, by God's mercy, they attain to everlasting felicity.

As the godly consideration of Predestination, and our Election in 
Christ, is full of sweet, pleasant, and unspeakable comfort to godly 
persons, and such as feel in themselves the working of the Spirit of 
Christ, mortifying the works of the flesh, and their earthly members, 
and drawing up their mind to high and heavenly things, as well because 
it doth greatly establish and confirm their faith of eternal Salvation 
to be enjoyed through Christ, as because it doth fervently kindle their 
love towards God: So, for curious and carnal persons, lacking the Spirit 
of Christ, to have continually before their eyes the sentence of God's 
Predestination, is a most dangerous downfall, whereby the Devil doth 
thrust them either into desperation, or into wrethchlessness of most 
unclean living, no less perilous than desperation.

Furthermore, we must receive God's promises in such wise, as they be 
generally set forth to us in Holy Scripture: and, in our doings, that 
Will of God is to be followed, which we have expressly declared unto us 
in the word of God.


<XVIII.  Of obtaining eternal Salvation only by the Name of Christ>

They also are to be had accursed that presume to say, That every man 
shall be saved by the Law or Sect which he professeth, so that he be 
diligent to frame his life according to that Law, and the light of 
Nature.  For Holy Scripture doth set out unto us only the Name of Jesus 
Christ, whereby men must be saved.


<XIX.  Of the Church.>

The visible Church of Christ is a congregation of faithful men, in which 
the pure Word of God is preached, and the Sacraments be duly ministered 
according to Christ's ordinance, in all those things that of necessity 
are requisite to the same.

As the Church of Jerusalem, Alexandria, and Antioch, have erred; so also 
the Church of Rome hath erred, not only in their living and manner of 
Ceremonies, but also in matters of Faith.


<XX.  Of the Authority of the Church.>

The Church hath power to decree Rites or Ceremonies, and authority in 
Controversies of Faith: and yet it is not lawful for the Church to 
ordain anything that is contrary to God's Word written, neither may it 
so expound one place of Scripture, that it be repugnant to another.  
Wherefore, although the Church be a witness and a keeper of Holy Writ, 
yet, as it ought not to decree any thing against the same, so besides 
the same ought not to enforce any thing to be believed for necessity of 
Salvation.

<page 872>

<XXI.  Of the Authority of General Councils.>

[The Twenty-first of the former Articles is omitted; because it is 
partly of a local and civil nature, and is provided for, as to the 
remaining parts of it, in other Articles.]

=The original 1571, 1662 text of this Article, omitted in the version of 
1801, reads as follows: "General Councils may not be gathered together 
without the commandment and will of Princes.  And when they be gathered 
together, (forasmuch as they be an assembly of men, whereof all be not 
governed with the Spirit and Word of God,) they may err, and sometimes 
have erred, even in things pertaining unto God.  Wherefore things 
ordained by them as necessary to salvation have neither strength nor 
authority, unless it may be declared that they be taken out of holy 
Scripture."=


<XXII.  Of Purgatory.>

The Romish Doctrine concerning Purgatory, Pardons, Worshipping and 
Adoration, as well of Images as of Relics, and also Invocation of 
Saints, is a fond thing, vainly invented, and grounded upon no warranty 
of Scripture, but rather repugnant to the Word of God.


<XXIII.  Of Ministering in the Congregation>

It is not lawful for any man to take upon him the office of public 
preaching, or ministering the Sacraments in the Congregation, before he 
be lawfully called, and sent to execute the same.  And those we ought to 
judge lawfully called and sent, which be chosen and called to this work 
by men who have public authority given unto them in the Congregation, to 
call and send Ministers into the Lord's vineyard.


<XXIV.  Of Speaking in the Congregation in such a Tongue as the people 
understandeth.  >

It is a thing plainly repugnant to the Word of God, and the custom of 
the Primitive Church, to have public Prayer in the Church, or to 
minister the Sacraments, in a tongue not understanded of the people.


<XXV.  Of the Sacraments.>

Sacraments ordained of Christ be not only badges or tokens of Christian 
men's profession, but rather they be certain sure witnesses, and 
effectual signs of grace, and God's good will towards us, by the which 
he doth work invisibly in us, and doth not only quicken, but also 
strengthen and confirm our Faith in him.

There are two Sacraments ordained of Christ our Lord in the Gospel, that 
is to say, Baptism, and the Supper of the Lord.

Those five commonly called Sacraments, that is to say, Confirmation, 
Penance, Orders, Matrimony, and Extreme Unction, are not to be counted 
for Sacraments of the Gospel, being such as have grown partly of the 
corrupt following of the Apostles, partly are states of life allowed in 
the Scriptures; but yet have not like nature of Sacraments with Baptism, 
and the Lord's Supper, for that they have not any visible sign or 
ceremony ordained of God.

The Sacraments are not ordained of Christ to be gazed upon, or to be 
carried about, but that we should duly use them.  And in such only as 
worthily receive the same, they have a wholesome effect or operation:but 
they that receive them unworthily, purchase to themselves damnation, as 
Saint Paul saith.

<page 873>


<XXVI.  Of the Unworthiness of the Ministers, which hinders not the
effect of the Sacraments.>

Although in the visible Church the evil be ever mingled with the good, 
and sometimes the evil have chief authority in the Ministration of the 
Word and Sacraments, yet forasmuch as they do not the same in their own 
name, but in Christ's, and do minister by his commission and authority, 
we may use their Ministry, both in hearing the Word of God, and in 
receiving the Sacraments.  Neither is the effect of Christ's ordinance 
taken away by their wickedness, nor the grace of God's gifts diminished 
from such as by faith, and rightly, do receive the Sacraments ministered 
unto them; which be effectual, because of Christ's institution and 
promise, although they be ministered by evil men.

Nevertheless, it appertaineth to the discipline of the Church, that 
inquiry be made of evil Ministers, and that they be accused by those 
that have knowledge of their offences; and finally, being found guilty, 
by just judgment be deposed.


<XVII.  Of Baptism>

Baptism is not only a sign of profession, and mark of difference, 
whereby Christian men are discerned from others that be not christened, 
but it is also a sign of Regeneration or New-Birth, whereby, as by an 
instrument, they that receive Baptism rightly are grafted into the 
Church; the promises of the forgiveness of sin, and of our adoption to 
be the sons of God by the Holy Ghost, are visibly signed and sealed; 
Faith is confirmed, and Grace increased by virtue of prayer unto God.

The Baptism of young Children is in any wise to be retained in the 
Church, as most agreeable with the institution of Christ.


<XVIII.  Of the Lord's Supper.>

The Supper of the Lord is not only a sign of the love that Christians 
ought to have among themselves one to another; but rather it is a 
Sacrament of our Redemption by Christ's death: insomuch that to such as 
rightly, worthily, and with faith, receive the same, the Bread which we 
break is a partaking of the Body of Christ; and likewise the Cup of 
Blessing is a partaking of the Blood of Christ.

Transubstantiation (or the change of the substance of Bread and Wine) in 
the Supper of the Lord, cannot be proved by Holy Writ; but is repugnant 
to the plain words of Scripture, overthroweth the nature of a Sacrament, 
and hath given occasion to many superstitions.

The Body of Christ is given, taken, and eaten, in the Supper, only after 
an heavenly and spiritual manner.  And the mean whereby the Body of 
Christ is received and eaten in the Supper, is Faith.

The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was not by Christ's ordinance 
reserved, carried about, lifted up, or worshipped.


<XXIX.  Of the Wicked, which eat not the Body of Christ in the use of 
the Lord's Supper.>

The Wicked, and such as be void of a lively faith, although they 
docarnally and visibly press with their teeth (as Saint Augustine saith) 
the Sacrament of the Body and Blood of Christ; yet in no wise are they 
partakers of Christ: but rather, to their condemnation, do eat and drink 
the sign or Sacrament of so great a thing.

<page 874>


<XXX.  Of both Kinds.>

The Cup of the Lord is not to be denied to the Lay-people: for both the 
parts of the Lord's Sacrament, by Christ's ordinance and commandment, 
ought to be ministered to all Christian men alike.


<XXXI.  Of the one Oblation of Christ finished upon the Cross.>

The Offering of Christ once made in that perfect redemption, 
propitiation, and satisfaction, for all the sins of the whole world, 
both original and actual; and there is none other satisfaction for sin, 
but that alone.  Wherefore the sacrifices of Masses, in the which it was 
commonly said, that the Priest did offer Christ for the quick and the 
dead, to have remission of pain or guilt, were blasphemous fables, and 
dangerous deceits. 


<XXXII.  Of the Marriage of Priests.>

Bishops, Priests, and Deacons, are not commanded by God's Law, either to 
vow the estate of single life, or to abstain from marriage: therefore it 
is lawful for them, as for all other Christian men, to marry at their 
own discretion, as they shall judge the same to serve better to 
godliness.


<XXXIII.  Of excommunicate Persons, how they are to be avoided.>

That person which by open denunciation of the Church is rightly cut off 
from the unity of the Church, and excommunicated, ought to be taken of 
the whole multitude of the faithful, as an Heathen and Publican, until 
he be openly reconciled by penance, and received into the Church by a 
Judge that hath the authority thereunto.


<XXXIV.  Of the Traditions of the Church.>

It is not necessary that the Traditions and Ceremonies be in all places 
one, or utterly like; for at all times they have been divers, and may be 
changed according to the diversity of countries, times, and men's 
manners, so that nothing be ordained against God's Word.  Whosoever, 
through his private judgment, willingly and purposely, doth openly break 
the Traditions and Ceremonies of the Church, which be not repugnant to 
the Word of God, and be ordained and approved by common authority, ought 
to be rebuked openly, (that others may fear to do the like,) as he that 
offendeth against the common order of the Church, and hurteth the 
authority of the Magistrate, and woundeth the consciences of the weak 
brethren.

Every particular or national Church hath authority to ordain, change, 
and abolish, Ceremonies or Rites of the Church ordained only by man's 
authority, so that all things be done to edifying.


<XXXV.  Of the Homilies.>

The Second Book of Homilies, the several titles whereof we have joined 
under this Article, doth contain a godly and wholesome Doctrine, and 
necessary for these times, as doth the former Book of Homilies, which 
were set forth in the time of Edward the Sixth; and therefore we judge 
them to be read in Churches by the Ministers, diligently and distinctly, 
that they may be understanded of the people.

<page 875>   


<Of the Names of the Homilies>

  1  Of the right Use of the Church.

  2  Against Peril of Idolatry.

  3  Of repairing and keeping clean of Churches.

  4  Of good Works:  first of Fasting.

  5  Against Gluttony and Drunkenness.

  6  Against Excess of Apparel.

  7  Of Prayer.

  8  Of the Place and Time of Prayer.

  9  That Common Prayers and Sacraments ought to be ministered in a 
known tongue.

  10  Of the reverend Estimation of God's Word.

  11  Of Alms-doing.

  12  Of the Nativity of Christ.

  13  Of the Passion of Christ.

  14  Of the Resurrection of Christ.

  15  Of the worthy receiving of the Sacrament of the Body and Blood of 
Christ.

  16  Of the Gifts of the Holy Ghost.

  17  For the Rogation-days

  18  Of the State of Matrimony.

  19  Of Repentance.

  20  Against Idleness.

  21  Against Rebellion.

[This Article is received in this Church, so far as it declares the Book 
of Homilies to be an explication of Christian doctrine, and instructive 
in piety and morals.  But all references to the constitution and laws of 
England are considered as inapplicable to the circumstances of this 
Church; which also suspends the order for the reading of said Homilies 
in churches, until a revision of them may be conveniently made, for the 
clearing of them, as well from obsolete words and phrases, as from the 
local references.]


<XXXVI.  Of Consecration of Bishops and Ministers.>

The Book of Consecration of Bishops, and Ordering of Priests and 
Deacons, as set forth by the General Convention of this Church in 1792, 
doth contain all things necessary to such Consecration and Ordering; 
neither hath it any thing that, of itself, is superstitious and ungodly.  
And, therefore, whosoever are consecrated or ordered according to said 
Form, we decree all such to be rightly, orderly, and lawfully 
consecrated and ordered.

=The original 1571, 1662 text of this Article reads as follows: "The 
Book of Consecration of Archbishops and Bishops, and Ordering of Priests 
and Deacons, lately set forth in the time of Edward the Sixth, and 
confirmed at the same time by authority of Parliament, doth contain all 
things necessary to such Consecration and Ordering; neither hath it any 
thing, that of itself is superstitious and ungodly.  And therefore 
whosoever are consecrated or ordered according to the Rites of that 
Book, since the second year of the forenamed King Edwand unto this time, 
or hereafter shall be consecrated or ordered according to the same 
Rites; we decree all such to be rightly, orderly, and lawfully 
consecrated and ordered."=


<XXXVII.  Of the Power of the Civil Magistrates.>

The Power of the Civil Magistrate extendeth to all men, as well Clergy 
as Laity, in all things temporal; but hath no authority in things purely 
spiritual.  And we hold it to be the duty of all men who are professors 
of the Gospel, to pay respectful obedience to the Civil Authority, 
regularly and legitimately constituted.

=The original 1571, 1662 text of this Article reads as follows: "The 
King's Majesty hath the chief power in this Realm of England, and other 
his Dominions, unto whom the chief Government of all Estates of this 
Realm, whether they be Ecclesiastical or Civil, in all causes doth 
appertain, and is not, nor ought to be, subject to any foreign 
Jurisdiction.  Where we attribute to the King's Majesty the chief 
government, by which Titles we understand the minds of some slanderous 
folks to be offended; we give not our Princes the 
<page 876>
ministering either of God's Word, or of the Sacraments, the which thing 
the Injunctions also lately set forth by Elizabeth our Queen do most 
plainly testify; but that only prerogative, which we see to have been 
given always to all godly Princes in holy Scriptures by God himself; 
that is, that they should rule all estates and degrees committed to 
their charge by God, whether they be Ecclesiastical or Temporal, and 
restrain with the civil sword the stubborn and evil-doers.=

=The Bishop of Rome hath no jurisdiction in this Realm of England.=

=The Laws of the Realm may punish Christian men with death, for heinous 
and grievous offenses.=

=It is lawful for Christian men, at the commandment of the Magistrate, 
to wear weapons, and serve in the wars."=


<XXXVIII.  Of Christian Men's Goods, which are not common.>

The Riches and Goods of Christians are not common, as touching the 
right, title, and possession of the same; as certain Anabaptists do 
falsely boast.  Notwithstanding, every man ought, of such things as he 
possesseth, liberally to give alms to the poor, according to his 
ability.


<XXXIX.  Of a Christian Man's Oath.>

As we confess that vain and rash Swearing is forbidden Christian men by 
our Lord Jesus Christ, and James his Apostle, so we judge, that 
Christian Religion doth not prohibit, but that a man may swear when the 
Magistrate requireth, in a cause of faith and charity, so it be done 
according to the Prophet's teaching in justice, judgment, and truth.


<The Chicago-Lambeth Quadrilateral 1886, 1888>


=Adopted by the House of Bishops 
Chicago, 1886=

We, Bishops of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States of 
America, in Council assembled as Bishops in the Church of God, do hereby 
solemnly declare to all whom it may concern, and especially to our 
fellow-Christians of the different Communions in this land, who, in 
their several spheres, have contended for the religion of Christ:

  1.  Our earnest desire that the Savior's prayer, "That we all may be 
one," may, in its deepest and truest sense, be speedily fulfilled;

  2.  That we believe that all who have been duly baptized with water, 
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, are 
members of the Holy Catholic Church.

  3.  That in all things of human ordering or human choice, relating to 
modes of worship and discipline, or to traditional customs, this Church 
is ready in the spirit of love and humility to forego all preferences of 
her own;

<page 877>

  4.  That this Church does not seek to absorb other Communions, but 
rather, co-operating with them on the basis of a common Faith and Order, 
to discountenance schism, to heal the wounds of the Body of Christ, and 
to promote the charity which is the chief of Christian graces and the 
visibile manifestation of Christ to the world.

But furthermore, we do hereby affirm that the Christian unity...can be 
restored only by the return of all Christian communions to the 
principles of unity exemplified by the undivided Catholic Church during 
the first ages of its existence; which principles we believe to be the 
substantial deposit of Christian Faith and Order committed by Christ and 
his Apostles to the Church unto the end of the world, and therefore 
incapable of compromise or surrender by those who have been ordained to 
be its stewards and trustees for the common and equal benefit of all 
men.

As inherent parts of this sacred deposit, and therefore as essential to 
the restoration of unity among the divided branches of Christendom, we 
account the following, to wit:

1.  The Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as the revealed 
Word of God.

2.  The Nicene Creed as the sufficient statement of the Christian Faith.

3.  The two Sacraments,--Baptism and the Supper of the Lord,--ministered 
with unfailing use of Christ's words of institution and of the elements 
ordained by Him.

4.  The Historic Episcopate, locally adapted in the methods of its 
administration to the varying needs of the nations and peoples called of 
God into the unity of His Church.

=Furthermore,= Deeply grieved by the sad divisions which affect the 
Christian Church in oun own land, we hereby declare our desire and 
readiness, so soon as there shall be any authorized response to this 
Declaration, to enter into brotherly conference with all or any 
Christian Bodies seeking the restoration of the organic unity of the 
Church, with a view to the earnest study of the conditions under which 
so priceless a blessing might happily be brought to pass.

=Note:  While the above form of the Quadrilateral was adopted by the 
House of Bishops, it was not enacted by the House of Deputies, but 
rather incorporated in a general plan referred for study and action to a 
newly created Joint Commission on Christian Reunion.=


=Lambeth Conferent of 1888
Resolution 11=

That, in the opinion of this Conference, the following Articles supply a 
basis on which approach may be by God's blessing made towards Home 
Reunion:

(a) The Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments, as "containing 
all things necessary to salvation," and as being the rule and ultimate 
standard of faith.

(b) The Apostles' Creed, as the Baptismal Symbol; and the Nicene Creed, 
as the sufficient statement of the Christian faith.

<page 878>

(c) The two Sacraments ordained by Christ Himself--Baptism and the 
Supper of the Lord--ministered with unfailing use of Christ's words of 
Institution, and of the elements ordained by Him.

4.  The Historic Episcopate, locally adapted in the methods of its 
administration to the varying needs of the nations and peoples called of 
God into the Unity of His Church.

<page 879>

<Tables for
Finding
Holy Days>

<page 880>



<Tables and Rules for Findingthe Date of Easter Day>


<Rules for Finding the Date of Easter Day>

Easter Day is always the Sunday after the full moon that occurs on or 
after the sping equinox on March 21, a date which is fixed in accordance 
with an ancient ecclesiastical computation, and which does not always 
correspond to the astronomical equinox.  This full moon may happen on 
any date between March 21 and April 18 inclusive.  If the full moon 
falls on a Sunday, Easter Day is the Sunday following.  But Easter Day 
cannot be earlier than March 22 or later than April 25.

To find the date of Easter Day in any particular year, it is necessary 
to have two points of reference--the Golden Number and the Sunday Letter 
for that year.

  1.  The Golden Number indicates the date of the full moon on or after 
the spring equinox of March 21, according to a nineteen-year cycle.  
These Numbers are prefixed in the Calendar to the days of the month from 
March 22 to April 19 inclusive.  In the present Calendar they are 
applicable from A.D. 1900 to A.D. 2099, after which they will change.

2.  The Sunday Letter identifies the days of the year when Sundays 
occur.  After every date in the Calendar a letter appears--from [A] to 
[g].  Thus, if January 1 is a Sunday, the Sunday Letter for the Year is 
[A], and every date in the Calendar marked by [A] is a Sunday.  If 
January 2 is a Sunday, then every date marked with [b] is a Sunday, and 
so on through the seven letters.

In Leap Years, however, the Sunday Letter changes on the first day of 
March.  In such years, when [A] is the Sunday Letter, this applies only 
to Sundays in January and February, and [g] is the Sunday Letter for the 
rest of the year.  Or if [d] is the Sunday Letter, then [c] is the 
Sunday Letter on and after March 1.


<To Find the Golden Number>

The Golden Number of any year is calculated as follows:  Take the number 
of the year, add 1, and then divide the sum by 19.  The remainder, if 
any, is the Golden Number.  If nothing remains, then 19 is the Golden 
Number.


<To Find the Sunday Letter>

The following Table provides ready reference to the Sunday Letter of any 
year between  A.D. 1900 and  A.D. 2099.  It will be found on the line of 
the hundredth year above the column that contains the remaining digits 
of the year.  But in Leap Years the Letter above the number marked with 
an asterisk is the Sunday Letter for January and February, and the 
Letter over the number not so marked is the Sunday Letter for the rest 
of the year.

<page 881>

Hundred Years:

1900:

  , , g, , f, , e, , d, , c, , b, , A

2000:

 b, , A, , g, , f, , e, , d, , c, , b

Years in excess of Hundreds:

00,*,00, ,01, ,02, ,03, ,04,*,04, ,05,

    ,06, ,07, ,08,*,08, ,09, ,10, ,11,

    ,12,*,12, ,13, ,14, ,15, ,16,*,16,

    ,17, ,18, ,19, ,20,*,20, ,21, ,22,

    ,23, ,24,*,24, ,25, ,26, ,27, ,28,*

    ,28, ,29, ,30, ,31, ,32,*,32, ,33,

    ,34, ,35, ,36,*,36, ,37, ,38, ,39,

    ,40,*,40, ,41, ,42, ,43, ,44,*,44,

    ,45, ,46, ,47, ,48,*,48, ,49, ,50,

    ,51, ,52,*,52, ,53, ,54, ,55, ,56,*

    ,56, ,57, ,58, ,59, ,60,*,60, ,61,

    ,62, ,63, ,64,*,64, ,65, ,66, ,67,

    ,68,*,68, ,69, ,70, ,71, ,72,*,72,

    ,73, ,74, ,75, ,76,*,76, ,77, ,78,

    ,79, ,80,*,80, ,81, ,82, ,83, ,84,*

    ,84, ,85, ,86, ,87, ,88,*,88, ,89,

    ,90, ,91, ,92,*,92, ,93, ,94, ,95,

    ,96,*,96, ,97, ,98, ,99, ,  , ,  ,


<To Find Easter Day>

When one has both tho Golden Number and the Sunday Letter for any 
particular year, then the date of Easter Day may be found in the 
Calendar, pages 21 and 22, as follows:

  1.  The Golden Number prefixed to a day in the month of March or April 
in the Calendar marks the date of the full moon in that year.

  2.  Easter Day will be the next date bearing the Sunday Letter of that 
year.  But when the Golden Number of a given year and the Sunday Letter 
of that year occur on the same date, then Easter day is one week later.  
(For example, if the Golden Number is 19--which appears in the Calendar 
prefixed to March 27--and the Sunday Letter is [d], then Easter Day in 
that year will fall on March 29.  If the Golden Number is 10 and the 
Sunday Letter is [A], then Easter Day will fall on April 9.  But if the 
Golden Number is 19 and the Sunday Letter is [b], then Easter Day will 
be one week later, namely April 3.)

<page 882>


<A Table to Find Easter Day>

Golden Number, Year, Easter Day

 1, 1900, , April 15

 2, 1901, , April 7

 3, 1902, , March 30

 4, 1903, , April 12

 5, 1904,*, April 3

 6, 1905, , April 23

 7, 1906, , April 15

 8, 1907, , March 31

 9, 1908,*, April 19

10, 1909, , April 11

11, 1910, , March 27

12, 1911, , April 16

13, 1912,*, April 7

14, 1913, , March 23

15, 1914, , April 12

16, 1915, , April 4

17, 1916,*, April 23

18, 1917, , April 8

19, 1918, , March 31

 1, 1919, , April 20

 2, 1920,*, April 4

 3, 1921, , March 27

 4, 1922, , April 16

 5, 1923, , April 1

 6, 1924,*, April 20

 7, 1925, , April 12

 8, 1926, , April 4

 9, 1927, , April 17

10, 1928,*, April 8

11, 1929, , March 31

12, 1930, , April 20

13, 1931, , April 5

14, 1932,*, March 27

15, 1933, , April 16

16, 1934, , April 1

17, 1935, , April 21

18, 1936,*, April 12

19, 1937, , March 28

 1, 1938, , April 17

 2, 1939, , April 9

 3, 1940,*, March 24

 4, 1941, , April 13

 5, 1942, , April 5

 6, 1943, , April 25

 7, 1944,*, April 9

 8, 1945, , April 1

 9, 1946, , April 21

10, 1947, , April 6

11, 1948,*, March 28

12, 1949, , April 17

13, 1950, , April 9

14, 1951, , March 25

15, 1952,*, April 13

16, 1953, , April 5

17, 1954, , April 18

18, 1955, , April 10

19, 1956,*, April 1

 1, 1957, , April 21

 2, 1958, , April 6

 3, 1959, , March 29

 4, 1960,*, April 17

 5, 1961, , April 2

 6, 1962, , April 22

 7, 1963, , April 14

 8, 1964,*, March 29

 9, 1965, , April 18

10, 1966, , April 10

11, 1967, , March 26

12, 1968,*, April 14

13, 1969, , April 6

14, 1970, , March 29

15, 1971, , April 11

16, 1972,*, April 2

17, 1973, , April 22

18, 1974, , April 14

19, 1975, , March 30

 1, 1976,*, April 18

 2, 1977, , April 10

 3, 1978, , March 26

 4, 1979, , April 15

 5, 1980,*, April 6

 6, 1981, , April 19

 7, 1982, , April 11

 8, 1983, , April 3

 9, 1984,*, April 22

10, 1985, , April 7

11, 1986, , March 30

12, 1987, , April 19

13, 1988,*, April 3

14, 1989, , March 26

15, 1990, , April 15

16, 1991, , March 31

17, 1992,*, April 19

18, 1993, , April 11

19, 1994, , April 3

 1, 1995, , April 16

 2, 1996,*, April 7

 3, 1997, , March 30

 4, 1998, , April 12

 5, 1999, , April 4

 6, 2000,*, April 23

 7, 2001, , April 15

 8, 2002, , March 31

 9, 2003, , April 20

10, 2004,*, April 11

11, 2005, , March 27

12, 2006, , April 16

13, 2007, , April 8

14, 2008,*, March 23

15, 2009, , April 12

16, 2010, , April 4

17, 2011, , April 24

18, 2012,*, April 8

19, 2013, , March 31

 1, 2014, , April 20

 2, 2015, , April 5

 3, 2016,*, March 27

 4, 2017, , April 16

 5, 2018, , April 1

 6, 2019, , April 21

 7, 2020,*, April 12

 8, 2021, , April 4

 9, 2022, , April 17

10, 2023, , April 9

11, 2024,*, March 31

12, 2025, , April 20

13, 2026, , April 5

14, 2027, , March 28

15, 2028,*, April 16

16, 2029, , April 1

17, 2030, , April 21

18, 2031, , April 13

19, 2032,*, March 28

 1, 2033, , April 17

 2, 2034, , April 9

 3, 2035, , March 25

 4, 2036,*, April 13

 5, 2037, , April 5

 6, 2038, , April 25

 7, 2039, , April 10

 8, 2040,*, April 1

 9, 2041, , April 21

10, 2042, , April 6

11, 2043, , March 29

12, 2044,*, April 17

13, 2045, , April 9

14, 2046, , March 25

15, 2047, , April 14

16, 2048,*, April 5

17, 2049, , April 18

18, 2050, , April 10

19, 2051, , April 2

 1, 2052,*, April 21

 2, 2053, , April 6

 3, 2054, , March 29

 4, 2055, , April 18

 5, 2056,*, April 2

 6, 2057, , April 22

 7, 2058, , April 14

 8, 2059, , March 30

 9, 2060,*, April 18

10, 2061, , April 10

11, 2062, , March 26

12, 2063, , April 15

13, 2064,*, April 6

14, 2065, , March 29

15, 2066, , April 11

16, 2067, , April 3

17, 2068,*, April 22

18, 2069, , April 14

19, 2070, , March 30

 1, 2071, , April 19

 2, 2072,*, April 10

 3, 2073, , March 26

 4, 2074, , April 15

 5, 2075, , April 7

 6, 2076,*, April 19

 7, 2077, , April 11

 8, 2078, , April 3

 9, 2079, , April 23

10, 2080,*, April 7

11, 2081, , March 30

12, 2082, , April 19

13, 2083, , April 4

14, 2084,*, March 26

15, 2085, , April 15

16, 2086, , March 31

17, 2087, , April 20

18, 2088,*, April 11

19, 2089, , April 3


  ** The years marked with an asterisk are Leap Years.


<A Table to Find Movable Feasts and Holy Days>


Easter Day, Sundays after Epiphany[*], Ash Wednesday[+], Ascension Day,
  Pentecost, Numbered Proper of 2 Pentecost[++], Advent Sunday

  [*] In Leap Years, the number of Sundays after Epiphany will be the  
same as if Easter Day were one day later than in the above Table.

  [+] In Leap Years, the date of Ash Wednesday will be one day later in  
the month of February than in the above Table.

  [++] Indicates the numbered Proper to be used on the Sunday after  
Trinity Sunday.  Subsequently, the Propers are used consecutively.


March 22:  4, Feb. 4  , April 30, May 10 , 3, November 29

March 23:  4, Feb. 5  , May 1   , May 11 , 3, November 30

March 24:  5, Feb. 6  , May 2   , May 12 , 3, December 1

March 25:  5, Feb. 7  , May 3   , May 13 , 3, December 2

March 26:  5, Feb. 8  , May 4   , May 14 , 3, December 3

March 27:  5, Feb. 9  , May 5   , May 15 , 4, November 27

March 28:  5, Feb. 10 , May 6   , May 16 , 4, November 28

March 29:  5, Feb. 11 , May 7   , May 17 , 4, November 29

March 30:  5, Feb. 12 , May 8   , May 18 , 4, November 30

March 31:  5, Feb. 13 , May 9   , May 19 , 4, December 1

April 1 :  6, Feb. 14 , May 10  , May 20 , 4, December 2

April 2 :  6, Feb. 15 , May 11  , May 21 , 5, December 3

April 3 :  6, Feb. 16 , May 12  , May 22 , 5, November 27

April 4 :  6, Feb. 17 , May 13  , May 23 , 5, November 28

April 5 :  6, Feb. 18 , May 14  , May 24 , 5, November 29

April 6 :  6, Feb. 19 , May 15  , May 25 , 5, November 30

April 7 :  6, Feb. 20 , May 16  , May 26 , 5, December 1

April 8 :  7, Feb. 21 , May 17  , May 27 , 5, December 2

April 9 :  7, Feb. 22 , May 18  , May 28 , 5, December 3

April 10:  7, Feb. 23 , May 19  , May 29 , 6, November 27

April 11:  7, Feb. 24 , May 20  , May 30 , 6, November 28

April 12:  7, Feb. 25 , May 21  , May 31 , 6, November 29

April 13:  7, Feb. 26 , May 22  , June 1 , 6, November 30

April 14:  7, Feb. 27 , May 23  , June 2 , 6, December 1

April 15:  8, Feb. 28 , May 24  , June 3 , 6, December 2

April 16:  8, March 1 , May 25  , June 4 , 6, December 3

April 17:  8, March 2 , May 26  , June 5 , 7, November 27

April 18:  8, March 3 , May 27  , June 6 , 7, November 28

April 19:  8, March 4 , May 28  , June 7 , 7, November 29

April 20:  8, March 5 , May 29  , June 8 , 7, November 30

April 21:  8, March 6 , May 30  , June 9 , 7, December 1

April 22:  9, March 7 , May 31  , June 10, 7, December 2

April 23:  9, March 8 , June 1  , June 11, 7, December 3

April 24:  9, March 9 , June 2  , June 12, 8, November 27

April 25:  9, March 10, June 3  , June 13, 8, November 28



<The Lectionary>

<page 888>

*Concerning the Lectionary*

*The Lectionary for Sundays is arranged in a three-year cycle, in which 
Year A always begins on the First Sunday of Advent in years evenly 
divisible by three.  (For example, 1977 divided by 3 is 659 with no 
remainder.  Year A, therefore, begins on Advent Sunday of that year.)*

*The Psalms and Lessons appointed for the Sundays and for other major 
Holy Days are intended for use at all public services on such days, 
except when the same congregation attends two or more services.  Thus, 
the same Lessons are to be read at the principal morning service, 
whether the Liturgy of the Word takes the form given in the Holy 
Eucharist, or that of the Daily Office.*

*When the same congregation is present for Morning or Evening Prayer, in 
addition to the Eucharist, the Lessons at the Office may be selected 
from one of the other years of the three-year Sunday cycle, or from the 
Lectionary for the Daily Office.  The Psalms at such Offices are 
normally those appointed in the Office Lectionary; but, when desired, 
the Psalm cited in the selected Sunday Proper may be used instead.*

*In this Lectionary, the selections from the Psalter are frequently 
cited in a longer and shorter version, usually from the same Psalm.  The 
longer version is particularly appropriate for use at the Office, the 
shorter version when the Psalm is sung between the Lessons at the 
Eucharist.  The selections may be further lengthened or shortened at 
discretion.*

*When an alternative Lesson is cited, it is sometimes identical with a 
Lesson appointed for the same day in the Daily Office Lectionary.*

*In the opening verses of Lessons, the Reader should omit initial 
conjunctions which refer only to what has preceded, substitute nouns for 
pronouns when the referent is not otherwise clear, or else prefix to the 
Reading some such introduction as, "&N. said (to &N.)."*

*Any Reading may be lengthened at discretion.  Suggested lengthenings 
are shown in parentheses.*

<page 889>


<The Lectionary>


<Year A>

First Sunday of Advent:
  122; Isaiah 2:1-5; Romans 13:8-14; Matthew 24:37-44

Second Sunday of Advent:
  72 *or* 72:1-8; Isaiah 11:1-10; Romans 15:4-13; Matthew 3:1-12

Third Sunday of Advent:
  146 *or* 146:4-9; Isaiah 35:1-10; James 5:7-10; Matthew 11:2-11

Fourth Sunday of Advent:
  24 *or* 24:1-7; Isaiah 7:10-17; Romans 1:1-7; Matthew 1:18-25

Christmas Day I:
  96 *or* 96:14,11-12; Isaiah 9:2-4,6-7; Titus 2:11-14; Luke 2:1-14(15-
20)

Christmas Day II:
  97 *or* 97:1-4,11-12; Isaiah 62:6-7,10-12; Titus 3:4-7; Luke 2:(1-
14)15-20

<page 890>

Christmas Day III:
  98 *or* 98:1-6; Isaiah 52:7-10; Hebrews 1:1-12, John 1:1-14

First Sunday after Christmas:
  147 *or* 147:13-21; Isaiah 61:10--62:3; Galatians 3:23-25; 4:4-7;
John 1:1-18

Holy Name-=January 1=
  8; Exodus 34:1-8; Romans 1:1-7; *or* Philippians 2:9-13; Luke 2:15-21

Second Sunday after Christmas:
  84 *or* 84:1-8; Jeremiah 31:7-14; Ephesians 1:3-6,15-19a; Matthew
2:13-15,19-23 *or* Luke 2:41-52 *or* Matthew 2:1-12

The Epiphany-=January 6=
  72 *or* 72:1-2,10-17; Isaiah 60:1-6,9; Ephesians3:1-12; Matthew 2:1-12

First Sunday after Epiphany:
  89:1-29 *or* 89:20-29; Isaiah 42:1-9; Acts 10:34-38; Matthew 3:13-17

Second Sunday after Epiphany:
  40:1-10: Isaiah 49:1-7; 1 Corinthians 1:1-9; John 1:29-41

Third Sunday after Epiphany:
  139:1-17 *or* 139:1-11; Amos 3:1-8; 1 Corinthians 1:10-17; Matthew
 4:12-23
 
<page 891>

Fourth Sunday after Epiphany:
  37:1-18 *or* 37:1-6; Micah 6:1-8; 1 Corinthians 1:(18-25)26-31;
Matthew 5:1-12

Fifth Sunday after Epiphany:
  27 *or* 27:1-7; Habakkuk 3:1-6,17-19; 1 Corinthians 2:1-11; Matthew
5:13-20

Sixth Sunday after Epiphany:
  119:1-16 *or* 119:9-16; Ecclesiasticus 15:11-20; 1 Corinthians 3:1-9;
Matthew 5:21-24,27-30,33-37

Seventh Sunday after Epiphany:
  71 *or* 71:16-24; Leviticus 19:1-2,9-18; 1 Corinthians 3:10-11,16-23;
Matthew 5:38-48

Eighth Sunday after Epiphany:
  62 *or* 62:6-14; Isaiah 49:8-18; 1 Corinthians 4:1-5(6-7)8-13;
Matthew 6:24-34

Last Sunday after Epiphany:
  99; Exodus 24:12(13-14)15-18; Philippians 3:7-14; Matthew 17:1-9

Ash Wednesday:
  103 *or* 103:8-14; Joel 2:1-2,12-17 *or* Isaiah 58:1-12;
2 Corinthians 5:20b--6:10; Matthew 6:1-6,16-21

First Sunday in Lent:
  51 *or* 51:1-13; Genesis 2:4b-9,15-17,25--3:7; Romans 5:12-19(20-21);
Matthew 4:1-11

Second Sunday in Lent:
  33:12-22; Genesis 12:1-8; Romans 4:1-5(6-12)13-17; John 3:1-17

<page 892>

Third Sunday in Lent:
  95 *or* 95:6-11; Exodus 17:1-7; Romans 5:1-11; John 4:5-26(27-38)39-42

Fourth Sunday in Lent:
  23; 1 Samuel 16:1-13; Ephesians 5:(1-7)8-14; John 9:1-13(14-27)28-38

Fifth Sunday in Lent:
  130; Ezekiel 37:1-3(4-10)11-14; Romans 6:16-23; John 11:(1-17)18-44

Palm Sunday:
  Liturgy of the Palms: 118:19-29; Matthew 21:1-11

  Liturgy of the Word: 22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11; Isaiah 45:21-25 *or*
Isaiah 52:13--53:12; Philippians 2:5-11; Matthew (26:36-75)27:1-54(55-66)
  
Monday in Holy Week:
  36:5-10; Isaiah 42:1-9; Hebrews 11:39--12:3; John 12:1-11 *or*
 Mark 14:3-9

Tuesday in Holy Week:
  71:1-12; Isaiah 49:1-6; 1 Corinthians 1:18-31; John 12:37-38,42-50
*or* Mark 11:15-19

Wednesday in Holy Week:
  69:7-15,22-23; Isaiah 50:4-9a; Hebrews 9:11-15,24-28; John 13:21-35
*or* Matthew 26:1-5,14-25

<page 893>

Maundy Thursday:
  78:14-20,23-25; Exodus 12:1-14a; 1 Corinthians 11:23-26(27-32);
John 13:1-15 *or* Luke 22:14-30

Good Friday:
  22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11 *or* 40:1-14 *or* 69:1-23; Isaiah 52:13--53:12
*or* Genesis 22:1-18 *or* Wisdom 2:1,12-24; Hebrews 10:1-25;
John (18:1-40) 19:1-37

Holy Saturday:
  130 *or* 31:1-5; Job 14:1-14; 1 Peter 4:1-8; Matthew 27:57-66 *or*
John 19:38-42

Easter Day:
  The Great Vigil: *See pages 288-291.*

  Early Service: *Use one of the Old Testament Lessons from the Vigil
 with*
  114; Romans 6:3-11; Matthew 28:1-10

  Principal Service:
  118:14-29 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 10:34-43 *or*
Exodus 14:10-14,21-25; 15:20-21; Colossians 3:1-4 *or* Acts 10:34-43;
John 20:1-10(11-18) *or* Matthew 28:1-10

  Evening Service:
  114 *or* 136 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 5:29a,30-32 *or* Daniel 12:1-3;
1 Corinthians 5:6b-8 *or* Acts 5:29a,30-32; Luke 24:13-35

<page 894>

Monday in Easter Week:
  16:8-11 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:14-22-32; Matthew 28:9-15 

Tuesday in Easter Week:
  33:18-22 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:36-41; John 20:11-18

Wednesday in Easter Week:
  105:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:1-10; Luke 24:13-35

Thursday in Easter Week:
  8 *or* 114 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:11-26; Luke 24:36b-48

Friday in Easter Week:
  116:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:1-12; John 21:1-14

Saturday in Easter Week:
  118:14-18 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:13-21; Mark 16:9-15,20

Second Sunday in Easter:
  111 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:14a,22-32 *or* Genesis 8:6-16; 9:8-16;
1 Peter 1:3-9 *or* Acts 2:14a,22-32; John 20:19-31

Third Sunday in Easter:
  116 *or* 116:10-17; Acts 2:14a,36-47 *or* Isaiah 43:1-12;
1 Peter 1:17-23 *or* Acts 2:14a,36-47; Luke 24:13-35

<page 895>

Fourth Sunday of Easter:
  23; Acts 6:1-9; 7:2a,51-60 *or* Nehemiah 9:6-15; 1 Peter 2:19-25
*or* Acts 6:1-9; 7:2a,51-60; John 10:1-10

Fifth Sunday of Easter:
  66:1-11 *or* 66:1-8; Acts 17:1-15 *or* Deuteronomy 6:20-25;
1 Peter 2:1-10 *or* Acts 17:1-15; John 14:1-14

Sixth Sunday of Easter:
  148 *or* 148:7-14; Acts 17:22-31 *or* Isaiah 41:17-20;
1 Peter 3:8-18 *or* Acts 17:22-31; John 15:1-8

Ascension Day:
  47 *or* 110:1-5; Acts 1:1-11 *or* Daniel 7:9-14; Ephesians 1:15-23
*or* Acts 1:1-11; Luke 24:49-53 *or* Mark 16:9-15,19-20

Seventh Sunday of Easter:
  68:1-20 *or* 47; Acts 1:(1-7)8-14 *or* Ezekiel 39:21-29;
1 Peter 4:12-19 *or* Acts 1:(1-7)8-14; John 17:1-11
 
<page 896>

Day of Pentecost:
  Early or Vigil Service:
  33:12-22, Canticle 2 or 13, 130, Canticle 9, 104:25-32; Genesis 11:1-9
*or* Exodus 19:1-9,16-20a;20:18-20 *or* Ezekiel 37:1-14 *or*
Joel 2:28-32; Acts 2:1-11 *or* Romans 8:14-17,22-27; John 7:37-39a

  Principal Service:
  104:25-37 *or* 104:25-32 *or* 33:12-15,18-22;
Acts 2:1-11 *or* Ezekiel 11:17-20; 1 Corinthians 12:4-13 *or*
Acts 2:1-11; John 20:19-23 *or* John 14:8-17

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost in that year is used.  See page
158.*

Trinity Sunday:
  150 *or* Canticle 2 or 13; Genesis1:1--2:3;
2 Corinthians 13:(5-10)11-14; Matthew 28:16-20

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday in that year is used.*


<The Season after Pentecost>

*Directions for the use of the Propers which follow are on page 158.*

Proper 1: =Closest to May 11=
  119:1-16 *or* 119:9-16; Ecclesiasticus 15:11-20; 1 Corinthians 3:1-9; 
Matthew 5:21-24,27-30,33-37

<page 897>

Proper 2: =Closest to May 18=
  71 *or* 71:16-24; Leviticus 19:1-2,9-18; 1 Corinthians 3:10-11,16-23; 
Matthew 5:38-48

Proper 3: =Closest to May 25=
  62 *or* 62:6-14; Isaiah 49:8-18; 1 Corinthians 4:1-5(6-7)8-13;
Matthew 6:24-34

Proper 4: =Closest to June 1=
  31 *or* 31:1-5,19-24; Deuteronomy 11:18-21,26-28; Romans 3:21-25a,28; 
Matthew 7:21-27

Proper 5: =Closest to June 8=
  50 *or* 50:7-15; Hosea 5:15--6:6; Romans 4:13-18; Matthew 9:9-13

Proper 6: =Closest to June 15=
  100; Exodus 19:2-8a; Romans 5:6-11; Matthew 9:35--10:8(9-15)

Proper 7: =Closest to June 22=
  69:1-18 *or* 69:7-10,16-18; Jeremiah 20:7-13; Romans 5:15b-19;
Matthew 10:(16-23)24-33

Proper 8: =Closest to June 29=
  89:1-18 *or* 89:1-4,15-18; Isaiah 2:10-17; Romans 6:3-11;
Matthew 10:34-42

Proper 9: =Closest to July 6=
  145 *or* 145:8-14; Zechariah 9:9-12; Romans 7:21--8:6; Matthew 11:25-30

Proper 10: =Closest to July 13=
  65 *or* 65:9-14; Isaiah 55:1-5,10-13; Romans 8:9-17;
Matthew 13:1-9,18-23

<page 898>

Proper 11: =Closest to July 20=
  86 *or* 86:11-17; Wisdom 12:13,16-19; Romans 8:18-25;
Matthew 13:24-30,36-43

Proper 12: =Closest to July 27=
  119:121-136 *or* 119:129-136; 1 Kings 3:5-12; Romans 8:26-34;
Matthew 13:31-33,44-49a

Proper 13: =Closest to August 3=
  78:1-29 *or* 78:14-20,23-25; Nehemiah 9:16-20; Romans 8:35-39;
Matthew 14:13-21

Proper 14: =Closest to August 10=
  29; Jonah 2:1-9; Romans 9:1-5; Matthew 14:22-33

Proper 15: =Closest to August 17=
  67; Isaiah 56:1(2-5)6-7; Romans 11:13-15,29-32; Matthew 15:21-28

Proper 16: =Closest to August 24=
  138; Isaiah 51:1-6; Romans 11:33-36; Matthew 16:13-20

Proper 17: =Closest to August 31=
  26 *or* 26:1-8; Jeremiah 15:15-21; Romans 12:1-8; Matthew 16:21-27

Proper 18: =Closest to September 7=
  119:33-48 *or* 119:33-40; Ezekiel 33:(1-6)7-11; Romans 12:9-21; 
Matthew 18:15-20

Proper 19: =Closest to September 14=
  103 *or* 103:8-13; Ecclesiasticus 27:30--28:7; Romans 14:5-12;
Matthew 18:21-35

<page 899>

Proper 20: =Closest to September 21=
  145 *or* 145:1-8; Jonah 3:10--4:11; Philippians 1:21-27;
Matthew 20:1-16

Proper 21: =Closest to September 28=
  25:1-14 *or* 25:3-9; Ezekiel 18:1-4,25-32; Philippians 2:1-13;
Matthew 21:28-32

Proper 22: =Closest to October 5=
  80 *or* 80:7-14; Isaiah 5:1-7; Philippians 3:14-21; Matthew 21:33-43

Proper 23: =Closest to October 12=
  23; Isaiah 25:1-9; Philippians 4:4-13; Matthew 22:1-14

Proper 24: =Closest to October 19=
  96 *or* 96:1-9; Isaiah 45:1-7; 1 Thessalonians 1:1-10;
Matthew 22:15-22

Proper 25: =Closest to October 26=
  1; Exodus 22:21-27; 1 Thessalonians 2:1-8; Matthew 22:34-46

Proper 26: =Closest to November 2=
  43; Micah 3:5-12; 1 Thessalonians 2:9-13,17-20; Matthew 23:1-12

Proper 27: =Closest to November 9=
  70; Amos 5:18-24; 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18; Matthew 25:1-13

Proper 28: =Closest to November 16=
  90 *or* 90:1-8,12; Zephaniah 1:7,12-18; 1 Thessalonians 5:1-10; 
Matthew 25:14-15,19-29

<page 900>

Proper 29: =Closest to November 23=
  95:1-7; Ezekiel 34:11-17; 1 Corinthians 15:20-28; Matthew 25:31-46



<Year B>

First Sunday of Advent:
  80 *or* 80:1-7; Isaiah 64:1-9a; 1 Corinthians 1:1-9;
Mark 13:(24-32)33-37

Second Sunday of Advent:
  85 *or* 85:7-13; Isaiah 40:1-11; 2 Peter 3:8-15a,18; Mark 1:1-8

Third Sunday of Advent:
  126 *or* Canticle 3 or 15; Isaiah 65:17-25;
1 Thessalonians 5:(12-15)16-28; John 1:6-8,19-28 *or* John 3:23-30

Fourth Sunday of Advent:
  132 *or 132:8-15; 2 Samuel 7:4,8-16; Romans 16:25-27; Luke 1:26-38

Christmas Day I:
  96 *or* 96:1-4,11-12; Isaiah 9:2-4,6-7; Titus 2:11-14;
Luke 2:1-14(15-20)

<page 901>

Christmas Day II:
  97 *or* 97:1-4,11-12; Isaiah 62:6-7,10-12; Titus 3:4-7;
Luke 2:(1-14)15-20

Christmas Day III:
  98 *or* 98:1-6; Isaiah 52:7-10; Hebrews 1:1-12; John 1:1-14

First Sunday after Christmas:
  147 *or* 147:13-21; Isaiah 61:10--62:3; Galatians 3:23-25; 4:4-7;
John 1:1-18

Holy Name: =January 1=
  8; Exodus 34:1-8; Romans 1:1-7; Luke 2:15-21

Second Sunday after Christmas:
  84 *or* 84:1-8; Jeremiah 31:7-14; Ephesians 1:3-6,15-19a;
Matthew 2:13-15,19-23 *or* Luke 2:41-52 *or* Matthew 2:1-12

The Epiphany: =January 6=
  72 *or* 72:1-2,10-17; Isaiah 60:1-6,9; Ephesians 3:1-12; Matthew 2:1-12

First Sunday after Epiphany:
  89:1-29 *or* 89:20-29; Isaiah 42:1-9; Acts 10:34-38; Mark 1:7-11

Second Sunday after Epiphany:
  63:1-8; 1 Samuel 3:1-10(11-20); 1 Corinthians 6:11b-20; John 1:43-51

Third Sunday after Epiphany:
  130; Jeremiah 3:21--4:2; 1 Corinthians 7:17-23; Mark 1:14-20

<page 902>

Fourth Sunday after Epiphany:
  111; Deuteronomy 18:15-20; 1 Corinthians 8:1b-13; Mark 1:21-28

Fifth Sunday after Epiphany:
  142; 2 Kings 4:(8-17)18-21(22-31)32-37; 1 Corinthians 9:16-23;
Mark 1:29-39

Sixth Sunday after Epiphany:
  42 *or* 42:1-7; 2 Kings 5:1-15ab; 1 Corinthians 9:24-27; Mark 1:40-45

Seventh Sunday after Epiphany:
  32 *or* 32:1-8; Isaiah 43:18-25; 2 Corinthians 1:18-22; Mark 2:1-12

Eighth Sunday after Epiphany:
  103 *or* 103:1-6; Hosea 2:14-23; 2 Corinthians 3:(4-11)17--4:2;
Mark 2:18-22

Last Sunday after Epiphany:
  27 *or* 27:5-11; 1 Kings 19:9-18; 2 Peter 1:16-19(20-21); Mark 9:2-9

Ash Wednesday:
  103 *or* 103:8-14; Joel 2:1-2,12-17 *or* Isaiah 58:1-12;            
  2 Corinthians 5:20b--6:10; Matthew 6:1-6,16-21

First Sunday in Lent:
  25 *or* 25:3-9; Genesis 9:8-17; 1 Peter 3:18-22; Mark 1:9-13

Second Sunday in Lent:
  16 *or 16:5-11; Genesis 22:1-14; Romans 8:31-39; Mark 8:31-38

<page 903>

Third Sunday in Lent:
  19:7-14; Exodus 20:1-17; Romans 7:13-25; John 2:13-22

Fourth Sunday in Lent:
  122; 2 Chronicles 36:14-23; Ephesians 2:4-10; John 6:4-15

Fifth Sunday in Lent:
  51 *or* 51:11-16; Jeremiah 31:31-34; Hebrews 5:(1-4)5-10; John 12:20-33

Palm Sunday:
  Liturgy of the Palms:
  118:19-29; Mark 11:1-11a

  Liturgy of the Word:
  22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11; Isaiah 45:21-25 *or*
Isaiah 52:13--53:12; Philippians 2:5-11; Mark (14:32-72)15:1-39(40-47)

Monday in Holy Week:
  36:5-10; Isaiah 42:1-9; Hebrews 11:39--12:3; John 12:1-11 *or*
Mark 14:3-9

Tuesday in Holy Week:
  71:1-12; Isaiah 49:1-6; 1 Corinthians 1:18-31; John 12:37-38,42-50
*or* Mark 11:15-19

Wednesday in Holy Week:
  69:7-15,22-23; Isaiah 50:4-9a; Hebrews 9:11-15,24-28; John 13:21-35
*or* Matthew 26:1-5,14-25

<page 904>

Maundy Thursday:
  78:14-20,23-25; Exodus 12:1-14a; 1 Corinthians 11:23-26(27-32); 
John 13:1-15 *or* Luke 22:14-30

Good Friday:
  22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11 *or* 40:1-14 *or* 69:1-23; Isaiah 52:13--53:12 *or*
Genesis 22:1-18 *or* Wisdom 2:1,12-24; Hebrews 10:1-25;
John (18:1-40)19:1-37

Holy Saturday:
  130 *or* 31:1-5; Job 14:1-14; 1 Peter 4:1-8; Matthew 27:57-66 *or*
John 19:38-42

Easter Day:
  The Great Vigil: *See pages 288-291.*

  Early Service:  *Use one of the Old Testament Lessons from the Vigil
with*
  114; Romans 6:3-11; Matthew 28:1-10

  Principal Service:
  118:14-29 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 10:34-43 *or* Isaiah 25:6-9;
Colossians 3:1-4 *or* Acts 10:34-43; Mark 16:1-8

  Evening Service:
  114 *or* 136 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 5:29a,30-32 *or* Daniel 12:1-3;
1 Corinthians 5:6b-8 *or* Acts 5:29a,30-32; Luke 24:13-35

<page 905>

Monday in Easter Week:
  16:8-11 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:14,22-32; Matthew 28:9-15

Tuesday in Easter Week:
  33:18-22 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:36-41; John 20:11-18

Wednesday in Easter Week:
  105:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:1-10; Luke 24:13-35

Thursday in Easter Week:
  8 *or* 114 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:11-26; Luke 24:36b-48

Friday in Easter Week:
  116:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:1-12; John 21:1-14

 Saturday in Easter Week:
  118:14-18 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:13-21; Mark 16:9-15,20

Second Sunday of Easter:
  111 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:12a,13-15,17-26 *or* Isaiah 26:2-9,19;
 1 John 5:1-6 *or* Acts 3:12a,13-15,17-26; John 20:19-31

Third Sunday of Easter:
  98 *or* 98:1-5; Acts 4:5-12 *or* Micah 4:1-5; 1 John 1:1--2:2 *or*
Acts 4:5-12; Luke 24:36b-48

Fourth Sunday of Easter:
  23 *or* 100; Acts 4:(23-31)32-37 *or* Ezekiel 34:1-10; 1 John 3:1-8
*or* Acts 4:(23-31)32-37; John 10:11-16

<page 906>

Fifth Sunday of Easter:
  66:1-11 *or* 66:1-8; Acts 8:26-40 *or* Deuteronomy 4:32-40;
 1 John 3:(14-17)18-24 *or* Acts 8:26-40; John 14:15-21

Sixth Sunday of Easter:
  33 *or* 33:1-8,18-22; Acts 11:19-30 *or* Isaiah 45:11-13,18-19;
 1 John 4:7-21 *or* Acts 11:19-30; John 15:9-17

Ascension Day:
  47 *or* 110:1-5; Acts 1:1-11 *or* Ezekiel 1:3-5a,15-22,26-28;
Ephesians 1:15-23 *or* Acts 1:1-11; Luke 24:49-53 *or* Mark 16:9-15,19-20

Seventh Sunday of Easter:
  68:1-20 *or* 47; Acts 1:15-26 *or* Exodus 28:1-4,9-10,29-30;
1 John 5:9-15 *or* Acts 1:15-26; John 17:11b-19

Day of Pentecost:
  Early or Vigil Service:
  33:12-22, Canticle 2 or 13, 130, Canticle 9, 104:25-32; Genesis 11:1-9
*or* Exodus 19:1-9,16-20a;20:18-20 *or* Ezekiel 37:1-14 *or* Joel 2:18-32;
Acts 2:1-11 *or* Romans 8:14-17,22-27; John 7:37-39a

<page 907>

  Principal Service:
  104:25-37 *or* 104:25-32 *or* 33:12-15,18-22; Acts 2:1-11 *or*
Isaiah 44:1-8; 1 Corinthians 12:4-13 *or* Acts 2:1-11; John 20:19-23
*or* John 14:8-17

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost in that year is used. See page
158.*

Trinity Sunday:
  93 *or* Canticle 2 *or* 13; Exodus 3:1-6; Romans 8:12-17; John 3:1-16

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday in that year is used.*


<The Season after Pentecost>

*Directions for the use of the Propers which follow are on page 158.*


Proper 1: =Closest to May 11=
  42 *or* 42:1-7; 2 Kings 5:1-15ab; 1 Corinthians 9:24-27; Mark 1:40-45

Proper 2: =Closest to May 18=
  32 *or* 32:1-8; Isaiah 43:18-25; 2 Corinthians 1:18-22; Mark 2:1-12

Proper 3: =Closest to May 25=
  103 *or* 103:1-6; Hosea 2:14-23; 2 Corinthians 3:(4-11)17--4:2; 
Mark 2:18-22

<page 908>

Proper 4: =Closest to June 1=
  81 *or* 81:1-10; Deuteronomy 5:6-21; 2 Corinthians 4:5-12; Mark 2:23-28

Proper 5: =Closest to June 8=
  130; Genesis 3:(1-7)8-21; 2 Corinthians 4:13-18; Mark 3:20-35

Proper 6: =Closest to June 15=
  92 *or* 92:1-4,11-14; Ezekiel 31:1-6,10-14; 2 Corinthians 5:1-10;
Mark 4:26-34

Proper 7: =Closest to June 22=
  107:1-32 *or* 107:1-3,23-32; Job 38:1-11,16-18; 2 Corinthians 5:14-21;
Mark 4:35-41; (5:1-20)

Proper 8: =Closest to June 29=
  112; Deuteronomy 15:7-11; 2 Corinthians 8:1-9,13-15; Mark 5:22-24,35b-43

Proper 9: =Closest to July 6=
  123; Ezekiel 2:1-7; 2 Corinthians 12:2-10; Mark 6:1-6

Proper 10: =Closest to July 13=
  85 *or* 85:7-13; Amos 7:7-15; Ephesians 1:1-14; Mark 6:7-13

Proper 11: =Closest to July 20=
  22:22-30; Isaiah 57:14b-21; Ephesians 2:11-22; Mark 6:30-44

Proper 12: =Closest to July 27=
  114; 2 Kings 2:1-15; Ephesians 4:1-7,11-16; Mark 6:45-52

<page 909>

Proper 13: =Closest to August 3=
  78:1-25 *or 78:14-20,23-25; Exodus 16:2-4,9-15; Ephesians 4:17-25;
John 6:24-35

Proper 14: =Closest to August 10=
  34 *or* 34:1-8; Deuteronomy 8:1-10; Ephesians 4:(25-29)30--5:2;
 John 6:37-51

Proper 15: =Closest to August 17=
  147 *or* 39:9-14; Proverbs 9:1-6; Ephesians 5:15-20; John 6:53-59

Proper 16: =Closest to August 34=
  16 *or* 34:15-22; Joshua 24:1-2a,14-25; Ephesians 5:21-33; John 6:60-69

Proper 17: =Closest to August 31=
  15; Deuteronomy 4:1-9; Ephesians 6:10-20; Mark 7:1-8,14-15,21-23

Proper 18: =Closest to September 7=
  146 *or* 146:4-9; Isaiah 35:4-7a; James 1:17-27; Mark 7:31-37

Proper 19: =Closest to September 14=
  116 *or* 116:1-8; Isaiah 50:4-9; James 2:1-5,8-10,14-18; Mark 8:27-38
*or* Mark 9:14-29

Proper 20: =Closest to September 21=
  54; Wisdom 1:16--2:1(6-11)12-22; James 3:16--4:6; Mark 9:30-37

Proper 21: =Closest to September 28=
  19 *or* 19:7-14; Numbers 11:4-6,10-16,24-29; James 4:7-12(13--5:6);
Mark 9:38-43,45,47-48

<page 910>

Proper 22: =Closest to October 5=
  8 *or* 128; Genesis 2:18-24; Hebrews 2:(1-8)9-18; Mark 10:2-9

Proper 23: =Closest to October 12=
  90 *or* 90:2-8,12; Amos 5:6-7,10-15; Hebrews 3:1-6; Mark 10:17-27(28-31)

Proper 24: =Closest to October 19=
  91 *or* 91:9-16; Isaiah 53:4-12; Hebrews 4:12-16; Mark 10:35-45

Proper 25: =Closest to October 26=
  13; Isaiah 59:(1-4)9-19; Hebrews 5:12--6:1,9-12; Mark 10:46-52

Proper 26: =Closest to November 2=
  119:1-16 *or* 119:1-8; Deuteronomy 6:1-9; Hebrews 7:23-28; Mark 12:28-34

Proper 27: =Closest to November 9=
  146 *or* 146:4-9; 1 Kings 17:8-16; Hebrews 9:24-28; Mark 12:38-44

Proper 28: =Closest to November 16=
  16 *or* 16:5-11; Daniel 12:1-4a(5-13); Hebrews 10:31-39; Mark 13:14-23

Proper 29: =Closest to November 23=
  93; Daniel 7:9-14; Revelation 1:1-8; John 18:33-37 *or* Mark 11:1-11

<page 911>

<Year C>


First Sunday of Advent:
  50 *or 50:1-6: Zechariah 14:4-9; 1 Thessalonians 3:9-13; Luke 21:25-31

Second Sunday of Advent:
  126; Baruch 5:1-9; Philippians 1:1-11; Luke 3:1-6

Third Sunday of Advent:
  85 *or* 85:7-13 *or* Canticle 9; Zephaniah 3:14-20;
Philippians 4:4-7(8-9); Luke 3:7-18

Fourth Sunday of Advent:
  80 *or* 80:1-7; Micah 5:2-4; Hebrews 10:5-10; Luke 1:39-49(50-56)

Christmas Day I:
  96 *or* 96:1-4,11-12; Isaiah 9:2-3,6-7; Titus 2:11-14;
Luke 2:1-14(15-20)

Christmas Day II:
  97 *or* 97:1-4,11-12; Isaiah 62:6-7,10-12; Titus 3:4-7;
Luke 2:(1-14)15-20

Christmas Day III:
  98 *or* 98:1-6; Isaiah 52:7-10; Hebrews 1:1-12; John 1:1-14

First Sunday after Christmas:
  147 *or* 147:13-21; Isaiah 61:10--62:3; Galatians 3:23-25; 4:4-7;
John 1:1-18

<page 912>

Holy Name: =January 1=
  8; Exodus 34:1-8, Romans 1:1-7; Luke 2:15-21

Second Sunday after Christmas:
  84 *or* 84:1-8; Jeremiah 31:7-14; Ephesians 1:3-6,15-19a; 
Matthew 2:13-15,19-23 *or* Luke 2:41-52 *or* Matthew 2:1-12

The Epiphany: =January 6=
  72 *or* 72:1-2,10-17; Isaiah 60:1-6,9; Ephesians 3:1-12; Matthew 2:1-12

First Sunday after Epiphany:
  89:1-29 *or* 89:20-29; Isaiah 42:1-9; Acts 10:34-38; Luke 3:15-16,21-22

Second Sunday after Epiphany:
  96 *or* 96:1-10; Isaiah 62:1-5; 1 Corinthians 12:1-11; John 2:1-11

Third Sunday after Epiphany:
  113; Nehemiah 8:2-10; 1 Corinthians 12:12-27; Luke 4:14-21

Fourth Sunday after Epiphany:
  71:1-17 *or* 71:1-6,15-17; Jeremiah 1:4-10; 1 Corinthians 14:12b-20;
Luke 4:21-32

Fifth Sunday after Epiphany:
  85 *or* 85:7-13; Judges 6:11-24a; 1 Corinthians 15:1-11; Luke 5:1-11

Sixth Sunday after Epiphany:
  1; Jeremiah 17:5-10; 1 Corinthians 15:12-20; Luke 6:17-26

<page 913>

Seventh Sunday after Epiphany:
  37:1-18 *or* 37:3-10; Genesis 45:3-11,21-28;
1 Corinthians 15:35-38,42-50; Luke 6:27-38

Eighth Sunday after Epiphany:
  92 *or* 92:1-5,11-14; Jeremiah 7:1-7(8-15); 1 Corinthians 15:50-58;
Luke 6:39-49

Last Sunday after Epiphany:
  99; Exodus 34:29-35; 1 Corinthians 12:27--13:13; Luke 9:28-36

Ash Wednesday:
  103 *or* 103:8-14; Joel 2:1-2,12-17 *or* Isaiah 58:1-12;
2 Corinthians 5:20b--6:10; Matthew 6:1-6,16-21

First Sunday in Lent:
  91 *or* 91:9-15; Deuteronomy 26:(1-4)5-11; Romans 10:(5-8a)8b-13;
Luke 4:1-13

Second Sunday in Lent:
  27 *or* 27:10-18; Genesis 15:1-12,17-18; Philippians 3:17--4:1
Luke 13:(22-30)31-35

Third Sunday in Lent:
  103 *or* 103:1-11; Exodus 3:1-15; 1 Corinthians 10:1-13; Luke 13:1-9

Fourth Sunday in Lent:
  34 *or* 34:1-8; Joshua (4:19-24); 5:9-12; 2 Corinthians 5:17-21
Luke 15:11-32

Fifth Sunday in Lent:
  126; Isaiah 43:16-21; Philippians 3:8-14; Luke 20:9-19

<page 914>

Palm Sunday:
  Liturgy of the Palms:
  118:19-29; Luke 19:29-40

  Liturgy of the Word:
  22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11; Isaiah 45:21-25 *or* Isaiah 52:13--53:12;
Philippians 2:5-11; Luke (22:39-71) 23:1-49(50-56)

Monday in Holy Week:
  36:5-10; Isaiah 42:1-9; Hebrews 11:39--12:3; John 12:1-11 *or* 
Mark 14:3-9

Tuesday in Holy Week:
  71:1-12; Isaiah 49:1-6; 1 Corinthians 1:18-31; John 23:37-38,42-50 *or*
Mark 11:15-19

Wednesday in Holy Week:
  69:7-15,22-23; Isaiah 50:4-9a; Hebrews 9:11-15,24-28; John 13:21-35
*or* Matthew 26:1-5,14-25

Maundy Thursday:                                                      
  78:14-20,23-25; Exodus 12:1-14a; 1 Corinthians 11:23-26(27-32);
John 13:1-15 *or* Luke 22:14-30

Good Friday:
  22:1-21 *or* 22:1-11 *or* 40:1-14 *or* 69:1-23; Isaiah 52:13--53:12 
*or* Genesis 22:1-18 *or* Wisdom 2:1,12-24; Hebrews 10:1-25;
John (18:1-40) 19:1-37

<page 915>

Holy Saturday:
  130 *or* 31:1-5; Job 14:1-14; 1 Peter 4:1-8; Matthew 27:57-66 *or*
John 19:38-42

Easter Day:
  The Great Vigil:  *See pages 288-291*

  Early Service:  *Use one of the Old Testament Lessons from the Vigil
with*
  114; Romans 6:3-11; Matthew 28:1-10
 
  Principal Service:
  118:14-29 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 10:34-43 *or* Isaiah 51:9-11;
Colossians 3:1-4 *or* Acts 10:34-43; Luke 24:1-10

  Evening Service:
  114 *or* 136 *or* 118:14-17,22-24; Acts 5:29a,30-32 *or* Daniel 12:1-3;
1 Corinthians 5:6b-8 *or* Acts 5:29a,30-32; Luke 24:13-35

Monday in Easter Week:
  16:8-11 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:14,22b-32; Matthew 28:9-15

Tuesday in Easter Week:
  33:18-22 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 2:36-41; John 20:11-18

Wednesday in Easter Week:
  105:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:1-10; Luke 24:13-35

Thursday in Easter Week:
  8 *or* 114 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 3:11-26; Luke 24:36b-48

<page 916>

Friday in Easter Week:
  116:1-8 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:1-12; John 21:1-14

Saturday in Easter Week:
  118:14-18 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 4:13-21; Mark 16:9-15,20

Second Sunday of Easter:
  111 *or* 118:19-24; Acts 5:12a,17-22,25-29 *or* Job 42:1-6;
Revelation 1:(1-8)9-19 *or* Acts 5:12a,17-22,25-29; John 20:19-31

Third Sunday of Easter:
  33 *or* 33:1-11; Acts 9:1-19a *or* Jeremiah 32:36-41;
Revelation 5:6-14 *or* Acts 9:1-19a; John 21:1-14

Fourth Sunday of Easter:
  100; Acts 13:15-16,26-33(34-39) *or* Numbers 27:12-23;
Revelation 7:9-17 *or* Acts 13:15-16,26-33(34-39); John 10:22-30

Fifth Sunday of Easter:
  145 *or* 145:1-9; Acts 13:44-52 *or* Leviticus 19:1-2,9-18;
Revelation 19:1,4-9 *or* Acts 13:44-52; John 13:31-35

Sixth Sunday of Easter:
  67; Acts 14:8-18 *or* Joel 2:21-27; Revelation 21:22--22:5 *or*
Acts 14:8-18; John 14:23-29

<page 917>

Ascension Day:
  47 *or* 110:1-5; Acts 1:1-11 *or* 2 Kings 2:1-15; Ephesians 1:15-23
*or* Acts 1:1-11; Luke 24:49-53 *or* Mark 16:9-15,19-20

Seventh Sunday of Easter:
  68:1-20 *or* 47; Acts 16:16-34 *or* 1 Samuel 12:19-24;
Revelation 22:12-14,16-17,20 *or* Acts 16:16-34; John 17:20-26

Day of Pentecost:
  Early or Vigil Service:
  33:12-22, Canticle 2 *or* 13; Genesis 11:1-9
*or* Exodus 19:1-9a,16-20a; 20:18-20 *or* Ezekiel 37:1-14 *or*
Joel 2:28-32; Acts 2:1-11 *or* Romans 8:14-17,22-27; John 7:37-39a

  Principal Service:
  104:24-37 *or* 104:25-32 *or* 33:12-15,18-22; Acts 2:1-11 *or*
Joel 2:28-32; 1 Corinthians 12:4-13 *or* Acts 2:1-11; John 20:19-23
*or* John 14:8-17

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost in that year is used.  See page
158.*

<page 918>

Trinity Sunday:
  29 *or* Canticle 2 *or* 13; Isaiah 6:1-8; Revelation 4:1-11;
John 16:(5-11)12-15 

*On the weekdays which follow, the numbered Proper which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday in that year is used.*

<The Season after Pentecost:>

*Directions for the use of the Propers which follow are on page 158.*

Proper 1: =Closest to May 11=
  1; Jeremiah 17:5-10; 1 Corinthians 15:12-20; Luke 6:17-26

Proper 2: =Closest to May 18=
  37:1-18 *or* 37:3-10; Genesis 45:3-11,21-28;
1 Corinthians 15:35-38,42-50; Luke 6:27-38

Proper 3: =Closest to May 25=
  92 *or* 92:1-5,11-14; Jeremiah 7:1-7(8-15); 1 Corinthians 15:50-58;
Luke 6:39-49

Proper 4: =Closest to June 1=
  96 *or* 96:1-9; 1 Kings 8:22-23,27-30,41-43; Galatians 1:1-10;
Luke 7:1-10 

Proper 5: =Closest to June 8=
  30 *or* 30:1-6,12-13; 1 Kings 17:17-24; Galatians 1:11-24; Luke 7:11-17

Proper 6: =Closest to June 15=
  32 *or* 32:1-8; 2 Samuel 11:26--12:10,13-15; Galatians 2:11-21;
Luke 7:36-50 

<page 919>

Proper 7: =Closest to June 22=
  63:1-8; Zechariah 12:8-10; 13:1; Galatians 3:23-29; Luke 9:18-24

Proper 8: =Closest to June 29=
  16 *or* 16:5-11; 1 Kings 19:15-16,19-21; Galatians 5:1,13-25;
Luke 9:51-62 

Proper 9: =Closest to July 6=
  66 *or* 66:1-8; Isaiah 66:10-16; Galatians 6:(1-10)14-18;
Luke 10:1-12,16-20

Proper 10: =Closest to July 13=
  25 *or* 25:3-9; Deuteronomy 30:9-14; Colossians 1:1-14; Luke 10:25-37

Proper 11: =Closest to July 20=
  15; Genesis 18:1-10a(10b-14); Colossians 1:21-29; Luke 10:38-42

Proper 12: =Closest to July 27=
  138; Genesis 18:20-33; Colossians 2:6-15; Luke 11:1-13

Proper 13: =Closest to August 3=
  49 *or* 49:1-11; Ecclesiastes 1:12-14; 2:(1-7,11)18-23;
Colossians 3:(5-11)12-17; Luke 12:13-21

Proper 14: =Closest to August 10=
  33 *or* 33:12-15,18-22; Genesis 15:1-6; Hebrews 11:1-3(4-7)8-16;
Luke 12:32-40

Proper 15: =Closest to August 17=
  82; Jeremiah 23:23-29; Hebrews 12:1-7(8-10)11-14; Luke 12:49-56

<page 920>

Proper 16: =Closest to August 24=
  46; Isaiah 28:14-22; Hebrews 12:18-19,22-29; Luke 13:22-30

Proper 17: =Closest to August 31=
  112; Ecclesiasticus 10:(7-11)12-18; Hebrews 13:1-8; Luke 14:1,7-14

Proper 18: =Closest to September 7=
  1; Deuteronomy 30:15-20; Philemon 1-20; Luke 14:25-33

Proper 19: =Closest to September 14=
  51:1-18 *or* 51:1-11; Exodus 32:1,7-14; 1 Timothy 1:12-17; Luke 15:1-10

Proper 20: =Closest to September 21=
  138; Amos 8:4-7(8-12); 1 Timothy 2:1-8; Luke 16:1-13

Proper 21: =Closest to September 28=
  146 *or* 146:4-9; Amos 6:1-7; 1 Timothy 6:11-19; Luke 16:19-31

Proper 22: =Closest to October 5=
  37:1-18 *or* 37:3-10; Habakkuk 1:1-6(7-11)12-13;2:1-4;
2 Timothy 1:(1-5)6-14; Luke 17:5-10

Proper 23: =Closest to October 12=
  113; Ruth 1:(1-7)8-19a; 2 Timothy 2:(3-7)8-15; Luke 17:11-19

Proper 24: =Closest to October 19=
  121; Genesis 32:3-8,22-30; 2 Timothy 3:14--4:5; Luke 18:1-8a

<page 921>

Proper 25: =Closest to October 26=
  84 *or* 84:1-6; Jeremiah 14:(1-6)7-10,19-22; 2 Timothy 4:6-8,16-18;
Luke 18:9-14

Proper 26: =Closest to November 2=
  32 *or* 32:1-8; Isaiah 1:10-20; 2 Thessalonians 1:1-5(6-10)11-12;
Luke 19:1-10

Proper 27: =Closest to November 9=
  17 *or* 17:1-8; Job 19:23-27a; 2 Thessalonians 2:13--3:5;
Luke 20:27(28-33)34-38 

Proper 28: =Closest to November 16=
  98 *or* 98:5-10; Malachi 3:13--4:2a,5-6; 2 Thessalonians 3:6-13;
Luke 21:5-19

Proper 29: =Closest to November 23=
  46; Jeremiah 23:1-6; Colossians 1:11-20; Luke 23:35-43 *or*
Luke 19:29-38 


<Holy Days>


St. Andrew: =November 30=
  19 *or* 19:1-6; Deuteronomy 30:11-14; Romans 10:8b-18; Matthew 4:18-22

St. Thomas: =December 21=
  126; Habakkuk 2:1-4; Hebrews 10:35--11:1; John 20:24-29

<page 922>

St. Stephen: =December 26=
  31 *or* 31:1-5; Jeremiah 26:1-9,12-15; Acts 6:8--7:2a,51c-60;
Matthew 23:34-39

St. John: =December 27=
  92 *or* 92:1-4,11-14; Exodus 33:18-23; 1 John 1:1-9; John 21:9b-24

Holy Innocents: =December 28=
  124; Jeremiah 31:15-17; Revelation 21:1-7; Matthew 2:13-18

Confession of St. Peter: =January 18=
  23; Acts 4:8-13; 1 Peter 5:1-4; Matthew 16:13-19

Conversion of St. Paul: =January 25=
  67; Acts 26:9-21; Galatians 1:11-24; Matthew 10:16-22

The Presentation: =February 2=
  84 *or* 84:1-6; Malachi 3:1-4; Hebrews 2:14-18; Luke 2:22-40

St. Matthias: =February 24=
  15; Acts 1:15-26; Philippians 3:13b-21; John 15:1,6-16

St. Joseph: =March 19=
  89:1-29 *or* 89:1-4,26-29; 2 Samuel 7:4,8-16; Romans 4:13-18;
Luke 2:41-52 

The Annunciation: =March 25=
  40:1-11 *or* 40:5-10 *or* Canticle 3 *or* 15; Isaiah 7:10-14;
Hebrews 10:5-10 ; Luke 1:26-38

<page 923>

St. Mark: =April 25=
  2 *or* 2:7-10; Isaiah 52:7-10; Ephesians 4:7-8,11-16; Mark 1:1-15
*or* Mark 16:15-20

St. Philip & St. James: =May 1=
  119:33-40; Isaiah 30:18-21; 2 Corinthians 4:1-6; John 14:6-14

The Visitation: =May 31=
  113 *or* Canticle 9; Zephaniah 3:14-18a; Colossians 3:12-17; 
Luke 1:39-49

St. Barnabas: =June 11=
  112; Isaiah 42:5-12; Acts 11:19-30; 13:1-3; Matthew 10:7-16

Nativity of St. John the Baptist: =June 24=
  85 *or* 85:7-13; Isaiah 40:1-11; Acts 13:14b-26; Luke 1:57-80

St. Peter & St. Paul: =June 29=
  87; Ezekiel 34:11-16; 2 Timothy 4:1-8; John 21:15-19

Independence Day: =July 4=
  145 *or* 145:1-9; Deuteronomy 10:17-21; Hebrews 11:8-16; Matthew 5:43-48

*The Psalm and Lessons "For the Nation," page 930, may be used instead.*

St. Mary Magdalene: =July 22=
  42:1-7; Judith 9:1,11-14; 2 Corinthians 5:14-18; John 20:11-18


<page 924>


St. James: =July 25=
  7:1-10; Jeremiah 45:1-5; Acts 11:27--12:3; Matthew 20:20-28

The Transfiguration: =August 6=
  99 *or* 99:5-9; Exodus 34:29-35; 2 Peter 1:13-21; Luke 9:28-36

St. Mary the Virgin: =August 15=
  34 *or* 34:1-9; Isaiah 61:10-11; Galatians 4:4-7; Luke 1:46-55

St. Bartholomew: =August 24=
  91 *or* 91:1-4; Deuteronomy 18:15-18; 1 Corinthians 4:9-15;
Luke 22:24-30 

Holy Cross Day: =September 14=
  98 *or* 98:1-4; Isaiah 45:21-25; Philippians 2:5-11 *or*
Galatians 6:14-18; John 12:31-36a

St. Matthew: =September 21=
  119:33-40; Proverbs 3:1-6; 2 Timothy 3:14-17; Matthew 9:9-13

St. Michael & All Angels: =September 29=
  103 *or* 103:19-22; Genesis 28:10-17; Revelation 12:7-12; John 1:47-51

St. Luke: =October 18=
  147 *or* 147:1-7; Ecclesiasticus 38:1-4,6-10,12-14; 2 Timothy 4:5-13;
Luke 4:14-21

St. James of Jerusalem: =October 23=
  1; Acts 15:12-22a; 1 Corinthians 15:1-11; Matthew 13:54-58

<page 925>

St. Simon & St. Jude: =October 28=
  119:89-96; Deuteronomy 32:1-4; Ephesians 2:13-22; John 15:17-27

All Saints' Day: =November 1=
  149; Ecclesiasticus 44:1-10,13-14; Revelation 7:2-4,9-17;
Matthew 5:1-12 
  *or this*
  149; Ecclesiasticus 2:(1-6)7-11; Ephesians 1:(11-14)15-23;
Luke 6:20-26(27-36)

Thanksgiving Day:
  65 *or* 65:9-14; Deuteronomy 8:1-3,6-10(17-20); James 1:17-18,21-27;
Matthew 6:25-33


<The Common of Saints>


Of a Martyr I
  126 *or* 121; 2 Esdras 2:42-48; 1 Peter 3:14-18,22; Matthew 10:16-22

Of a Martyr II
  116 *or* 116:1-8; Ecclesiasticus 51:1-12; Revelation 7:13-17; 
Luke 12:2-12

Of a Martyr III
  124 *or 31:1-5; Jeremiah 15:15-21; 1 Peter 4:12-19; Mark 8:34-38

Of a Missionary I
  96 *or* 96:1-7; Isaiah 52:7-10; Acts 1:1-9; Luke 10:1-9

<page 926>

Of a Missionary II:
  98 *or* 98:1-4; Isaiah 49:1-6; Acts 17:22-31; Matthew 28:16-20

Of a Pastor I:
  23: Ezekiel 34:11-16; 1 Peter 5:1-4; John 21:15-17

Of a Pastor II:
  84 *or* 84:7-12; Acts 20:17-35; Ephesians 3:14-21; Matthew 24:42-47

Of a Theologian and Teacher I:
  119:97-104; Wisdom 7:7-14; 1 Corinthians 2:6-10,13-16; John 17:18-23

Of a Theologian and Teacher II:
  119:89-96; Proverbs 3:1-7; 1 Corinthians 3:5-11; Matthew 13:47-52

Of a Monastic I:
  34 *or* 34:1-8; Song of Songs 8:6-7; Philippians 3:7-15;
Luke 12:33-37 *or* Luke 9:57-62

Of a Monastic II:
  133 *or* 119:161-168; Acts 2:42-47a; 2 Corinthians 6:1-10;
Matthew 6:24-33 

Of a Saint I:
  15; Micah 6:6-8; Hebrews 12:1-2; Matthew 25:31-40

Of a Saint II:
  34 *or* 34:15-22; Wisdom 3:1-9; Philippians 4:4-9; Luke 6:17-23

<page 927>

Of a Saint III:
  1; Ecclesiasticus 2:7-11; 1 Corinthians 1:26-31; Matthew 25:1-13


<Various Occasions>


l. Of the Holy Trinity:
  29; Exodus 3:11-15; Romans 11:33-36; Matthew 28:18-20

2. Of the Holy Spirit:
  139:1-17 *or* 139:1-9; Isaiah 61:1-3; 1 Corinthians 12:4-14;
Luke 11:9-13 

3. Of the Holy Angels:
  148 *or* 103:19-22; Daniel 7:9-10a *or* 2 Kings 6:8-17;
Revelation 5:11-14; John 1:47-51

4. Of the Incarnation:
  111 *or* 132:11-19; Isaiah 11:1-10 *or* Genesis 17:1-8;
1 John 4:1-11 *or* 1 Timothy 3:14-16; Luke 1:26-33(34-38) *or*
Luke 11:27-28

5. Of the Holy Eucharist:
  34 *or* 116:10-17; Deuteronomy 8:2-3; Revelation 19:1-2a,4-9 *or*
1 Corinthians 10:1-4,16-17 *or* 1 Corinthians 11:23-29; John 6:47-58

<page 928>

6. Of the Holy Cross:
  40:1-11 *or* 40:5-11; Isaiah 52:13-15; 53:10-12;
1 Corinthians 1:18-24; John 12:23-33

7. For All Baptized Christians:
  16:5-11; Jeremiah 17:7-8 *or* Ezekiel 36:24-28; Romans 6:3-11;
Mark 10:35-45 

8.  For the Departed:
  116 *or* 103:13-22 *or* 130; Isaiah 25:6-9 *or* Wisdom 3:1-9;
1 Corinthians 15:50-58; John 5:24-27 *or* John 6:37-40 *or* John 11:21-27

*Any of the Psalms and Lessons appointed at the Burial of the Dead may
be used instead.*

9. Of the Reign of Christ:
  93 *or* Canticle 18; Daniel 7:9-14; Colossians 1:11-20;
John 18:33-37 

*Any of the Psalms and Lessons appointed in Proper 29 may be used
instead.*    

10. At Baptism:
  15 *or* 23 *or* 27 *or* 42:1-7 *or* 84 *or* Canticle 9;
Ezekiel 36:24-28[*]; Romans 6:3-5 *or* Romans 8:14-17 *or*
2 Corinthians 5:17-20; Mark 1:9-11 *or* Mark 10:13-16 *or* John 3:1-6

*[*] Any of the other Old Testament Lessons for the Easter Vigil may be
substituted.*

<page 929>

11. At Confirmation:
  1 *or* 139:1-9; Isaiah 61:1-9 *or* Jeremiah 31:31-34 *or*
Ezekiel 37:1-10; Romans 8:18-27 *or* Romans 12:1-8 *or* Galatians 5:16-25
*or* Ephesians 4:7,11-16; Matthew 5:1-12 *or* Matthew 16:24-27 *or*
Luke 4:16-22 *or* John 14:15-21

12. Anniversary of the Dedication of a Church:
  84 *or* 84:1-6; 1 Kings 8:22-30 *or* Genesis 28:10-17;
1 Peter 2:1-5,9-10; Matthew 21:12-16

13. For a Church Convention:
  19:7-14; Isaiah 55:1-13; 2 Corinthians 4:1-10; John 15:1-11

14. For the Unity of the Church:
  122; Isaiah 35:1-10; Ephesians 4:1-6; John 17:6a,15-23

15. For the Ministry I:
  99 *or* 27:1-9; Numbers 11:16-17,24-29; 1 Corinthians 3:5-11;
John 4:31-38 

15. For the Ministry II:
  63:1-8; 1 Samuel 3:1-10; Ephesians 4:11-16; Matthew 9:35-38

15. For the Ministry III:
  15; Exodus 19:3-8; 1 Peter 4:7-11; Matthew 16:24-27

<page 930>

16. For the Mission of the Church I:
  96 *or* 96:1-7; Isaiah 2:2-4; Ephesians 2:13-22; Luke 10:1-9

16. For the Mission of the Church II:
  67; Isaiah 49:5-13; Ephesians 3:1-12; Matthew 28:16-20

17. For the Nation:
  47; Isaiah 26:1-8; Romans 13:1-10; Mark 12:13-17

*The Psalm and any of the Lessons appointed for Independence Day may
be used instead.*

18. For Peace:
  85:7-13; Micah 4:1-5; Ephesians 2:13-18 *or* Colossians 3:12-15;
John 16:23-33 *or* Matthew 5:43-48

19. For Rogation Days I:
  147 *or* 147:1-13; Deuteronomy 11:10-15 *or* Ezekiel 47:6-12 *or*
Jeremiah 14:1-9; Romans 8:18-25; Mark 4:26-32

19. For Rogation Days II:
  107:1-9; Ecclesiasticus 38:27-32; 1 Corinthians 3:10-14; Matthew 6:19-24

19. For Rogation Days III:
  104:25-37 *or* 104:1,13-15,25-32; Job 38:1-11,16-18;
1 Timothy 6:7-10,17-19; Luke 12:13-21

<page 931>

20. For the Sick:
  13 *or* 86:1-7; 2 Kings 20:1-5; James 5:13-16; Mark 2:1-12

*Any of the Psalms and Lessons appointed at the Ministration to the
Sick may be used instead.*

21. For Social Justice:
  72 *or* 72:1-4,12-14; Isaiah 42:1-7; James 2:5-9,12-17; Matthew 10:32-42

22. For Social Service:
  146 *or* 22:22-27; Zechariah 8:3-12,16-17; 1 Peter 4:7-11; Mark 10:42-52

23. For Education:
  78:1-7; Deuteronomy 6:4-9,20-25; 2 Timothy 3:14--4:5; Matthew 11:25-30

24. For Vocation in Daily Work:
  8; Ecclesiastes 3:1,9-13; 1 Peter 2:11-17; Matthew 5:19-24

25. For Labor Day:
  107:1-9 *or* 90:1-2,16-17; Ecclesiasticus 38:27-32;
1 Corinthians 3:10-14; Matthew 5:19-24

<page 932>

<page 933>



<Daily Office Lectionary>

<page 934>

*Concerning the Daily Office Lectionary*  

*The Daily Office Lectionary is arranged in a two-year cycle. Year One 
begins on the First Sunday of Advent preceding odd-numbered years, and 
Year Two begins on the First Sunday of Advent preceding even-numbered 
years.  (Thus, on the First Sunday of Advent, 1976, the Lectionary for 
Year One is begun.)*  

*Three Readings are provided for each Sunday and weekday in each of the 
two years.  Two of the Readings may be used in the morning and one in 
the evening; or, if the Office is read only once in the day, all three 
Readings may be used.  When the Office is read twice in the day, it is 
suggested that the Gospel Reading be used in the evening in Year One, 
and in the morning in Year Two.  If two Readings are desired at both 
Offices, the Old Testament Reading for the alternate year is used as the 
First Reading at Evening Prayer.*  

*When more than one Reading is used at an Office, the first is always 
from the Old Testament (or the Apocrypha).*  

*When a Major Feast interrupts the sequence of Readings, they may be re-
ordered by lengthening, combining, or omitting some of them, to secure 
continuity or avoid repitition.*  

*Any Reading may be lengthened at discretion.  Suggested lengthenings 
are shown in parentheses.*  

*In this Lectionary (except in the weeks from 4 Advent to 1 Epiphany, 
and Palm Sunday to 2 Easter), the Psalms are arranged in a seven-week 
pattern which recurs throughout the year, except for appropriate 
variations in Lent and Easter Season.*  

*In the citation of the Psalms, those for the morning are given first, 
and then those for the evening.  At the discretion of the officiant, 
however, any of the Psalms appointed for a given day may be used in the 
morning or in the evening.  Likewise, Psalms appointed for any day may 
be used on any other day in the same week, except on major Holy Days.*  

<page 935>  

*Brackets and parentheses are used (brackets in the case of whole 
Psalms, parentheses in the case of verses) to indicate Psalms and verses 
of Psalms which may be omitted.  In some instances, the entire portion 
of the Psalter assigned to a given Office has been bracketed, and 
alternative Psalmody provided.  Those who desire to recite the Psalter 
in its entirety should, in each instance, use the bracketed Psalms 
rather than the alternatives.*  

*Antiphons drawn from the Psalms themselves, or from the opening 
sentences given in the Offices, or from other passages of Scripture, may 
be used with the Psalms and biblical Canticles.  The antiphons may be 
sung or said at the beginning and end of each Psalm or Canticle, or may 
be used as refrains after each verse or group of verses.*  

*On Special Occasions, the officiant may select suitable Psalms and 
Readings.*  

<page 936>

<Year One>

<Week of 1 Advent>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Isa. 1:1-9; 2 Pet. 3:1-10; Matt. 25:1-13

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Isa. 1:10-20; 1 Thess. 1:1-10; Luke 20:1-8

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Isa. 1:21-31; 1 Thess. 2:1-12; Luke 20:9-18

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Isa. 2:1-11; 1 Thess. 2:13-20; Luke 20:19-26

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Isa. 2:12-22; 1 Thess. 3:1-13; Luke 20:27-40

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Isa. 3:8-15; 1 Thess. 4:1-12; Luke 20:41-21:4

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Isa. 4:2-6; 1 Thess. 4:13-18; Luke 21:5-19


<Week of 2 Advent>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Isa. 5:1-7; 2 Pet. 3:11-18; Luke 7:28-35

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Isa. 5:8-12,18-23; 1 Thess. 5:1-11; Luke 21:20-28

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Isa. 5:13-17, 24-25; 1 Thess. 5:12-28; Luke 21:29-38

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Isa. 6:1-13; 2 Thess. 1:1-12; John 7:53-8:11

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Isa. 7:1-9; 2 Thess. 2:1-12; Luke 22:1-13

Friday:  31; 35
  Isa. 7:10-25; 2 Thess. 2:13-3:5; Luke 22:14-30

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Isa. 8:1-15; 2 Thess. 3:6-18; Luke 22:31-38


<Week of 3 Advent>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Isa. 13:6-13; Heb. 12:18-29; John 3:22-30

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Isa. 8:16-9:1; 2 Pet. 1:1-11; Luke 22:39-53

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Isa. 9:1-7; 2 Pet. 1:12-21; Luke 22:54-69

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Isa. 9:8-17; 2 Pet. 2:1-10a; Mark 1:1-8

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 33
  Isa. 9:18-10:4; 2 Pet. 2:10b-16; Matt. 3:1-12

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Isa. 10:5-19; 2 Pet. 2:17-22; Matt. 11:2-15

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Isa. 10:20-27; Jude 17-25; Luke 3:19


<Week of 4 Advent>

Sunday:  24,29; 8,84
  Isa. 42:1-12; Eph. 6:10-20; John 3:16-21

Monday:  61,62; 112,115
  Isa. 11:1-9; Rev. 20:1-10; John 5:30-47

Tuesday:  66,67; 116,117
  Isa. 11:10-16; Rev. 20:11-21:8; Luke 1:5-25

Wednesday:  72; 111,113
  Isa. 28:9-22; Rev. 21:9-21; Luke 1:26-38

Thursday:  80; 146,147
  Isa. 29:13-24; Rev. 21:22-22:5; Luke 1:39-48a(48b-56)

Friday:  93, 96; 148,150
  Isa. 33:17-22; Rev. 22:6-11,18-20; Luke 1:57-66

Dec. 24:  45,46;
  Isa. 35:1-10; Rev. 22:12-17,21; Luke 1:67-80

Christmas Eve:  ; 89:1-29
  Isa. 59:15b-21; Phil. 2:5-11


<Christmas Day and Following>

Christmas Day:  2,85; 110:1-1(6-7),132
  Zech. 2:10-13; 1 John 4:7-16; John 3:31-26

First Sunday after Christmas:  93,96; 34
  Isa. 62:6-7,10-12; Heb 2: 10-18; Matt. 1:18-25

Dec. 29:  18:1-20; 18:21-50[*] 
  Isa. 12:1-6; Rev. 1:1-8; John 7:37-52

  [*] If today is Saturday, use Psalms 23 and 27 at Evening Prayer

Dec. 30:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 23,27
  Isa 25:1-9; Rev. 1:9-20; John 7:53-8:11

Dec. 31:  46,48; 
  Isa. 26:1-9; 2 Cor. 5:16-6:2; John 8:12-19

Eve of Holy Name: ; 90
  Isa. 65:15b-25; Rev. 21:1-6

Holy Name:  103; 148
  Gen. 17:1-12a,15-16; Col. 2:6-12; John 16:23b-30

Second Sunday after Christmas:  66,67; 145
  Ecclus. 3:3-9,14-17; 1 John 2:12-17; John 6:41-47

Jan. 2:  34; 33
  Gen. 12:1-7; Heb. 11:1-12; John 6:35-42,48-51

Jan. 3:  68; 72[*]
  Gen. 28:10-22; Heb. 11:13-22; John 10:7-17

Jan. 4:  85,87; 89:1-29 [**]
  Exod. 3:1-12; Heb. 11:23-31; John 14:6-14

Jan. 5:  2, 110:1-5(6-7);
  Joshua 1:1-9; Heb. 11:32-12:2; John 15:1-16

Eve of Epiphany:  ; 29,98
  Isa. 66:18-23; Rom. 15:7-13

  [*]  If today is Saturday, use Psalm 136 at Evening Prayer.

  [**] If today is Saturday, use Psalm 136 at Evening Prayer.


<The Epiphany and Following>

Epiphany:  46, 97 ; 96,100
  Isa. 52:7-10; Rev. 21:22-27; Matt. 12:14-21

Jan. 7 [*]:  103; 114, 115
  Isa. 52:3-6; Rev. 2:1-7; John 2:1-11

Jan. 8: 117, 118; 112, 113
  Isa. 59:15-21; Rev. 2:8-17; John 4:46-54

Jan. 9:  121, 122, 123; 131, 132
  Isa. 63:1-5; Rev. 2:18-29; John 5:1-15

Jan. 10:  138, 139:1-17(18-23); 147
  Isa. 65:1-9; Rev. 3:1-6; John 6:1-14

Jan. 11:  148, 150; 91,92
  Isa. 65:13-16; Rev. 3:7-13; John 6:15-27

Jan. 12:  98, 99, [100]; 
  Isa. 66:1-2,22-23; Rev. 3:14-22; John 9:1-12,35-38

Eve of 1 Epiphany:  ; 104
  Isa. 61:1-9; Gal. 3:23-29, 4:4-7

  [*]  The Psalms and Readings for the dated days after the Epiphany
are used only until the following Saturday Evening.


<Week of 1 Epiphany>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Isa. 40:1-11; Heb. 1:1-12; John 1:1-7,19-20,29-34

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Isa. 40:12-23; Eph. 1:1-14; Mark 1:1-13

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Isa. 40:25-31; Eph. 1:15-23; Mark 1:14-28

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Isa. 41:1-16; Eph. 2:1-10; Mark 1:29-45

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Isa. 41:17-29; Eph. 2:11-22; Mark 2:1-12

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Isa. 42:(1-9)10-17; Eph. 3:1-13; Mark 2:13-22

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Isa. 43:1-13; Eph. 3:14-21; Mark 2:23-3:6


<Week of 2 Epiphany>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Isa. 43:14-44:5; Heb. 6:17-7:10; John 4:27-42

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Isa. 44:6-8,21-23; Eph. 4:1-16; Mark 3:7-19a

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Isa. 44:9-20; Eph. 4:17-32; Mark 3:19b-35

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Isa. 44:24-45:7; Eph. 5:1-14; Mark 4:1-20

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Isa. 45:5-17; Eph. 5:15-33; Mark 4:21-34

Friday:  31; 35
  Isa. 45:18-25; Eph. 6:1-9; Mark 4:35-41

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Isa. 46:1-13; Eph. 6:10-24; Mark 5:1-20


<Week of 3 Epiphany>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Isa. 47:1-15; Heb. 10:19-31; John 5:2-18

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Isa. 48:1-11; Gal. 1:1-17; Mark 5:21-43

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Isa. 48:12-21; Gal. 1:18-2:10; Mark 6:1-13

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Isa. 49:1-12; Gal. 2:11-21; Mark 6:13-29

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 118
  Isa. 49:13-23; Gal. 3:1-14; Mark 6:30-46

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Isa. 50:1-11; Gal. 3:15-22; Mark 6:47-56

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Isa. 51:1-8; Gal. 3:23-29; Mark 7:1-23


<Week of 4 Epiphany>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Isa. 51:9-16; Heb. 11:8-16; John 7:14-31

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Isa. 51:17-23; Gal. 4:1-11; Mark 7:24-37

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Isa. 52:1-12; Gal. 4:12-20; Mark 8:1-10

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Isa. 54:1-10(11-17); Gal. 4:21-31; Mark 8:11-26

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Isa. 55:1-13; Gal. 5:1-15; Mark 8:27-9:1

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Isa. 56:1-8; Gal. 5:16-24; Mark 9:2-13

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Isa. 57:3-13; Gal. 5:25-6:10; Mark 9:14-29


<Week of 5 Epiphany>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Isa. 57:14-21; Heb. 12:1-6; John 7:37-46

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Isa. 58:1-12; Gal. 6:11-18; Mark 9:30-41

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Isa. 59:1-15a; 2 Tim. 1:1-14; Mark 9:42-50

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Isa. 59:15b-21; 2 Tim. 1:15-2:13; Mark 10:1-16

Thursday:  [83] *or* 146, 147; 85, 86
  Isa. 60:1-17; 2 Tim. 2:14-26; Mark 10:17-31

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Isa. 61:1-9; 2 Tim. 3:1-17; Mark 10:32-45

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Isa. 61:10-62:5; 2 Tim. 4:1-8; Mark 10:46-52


<Week of 6 Epiphany>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Isa. 62:6-12; 1 John 2:3-11; John 8:12-19

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Isa. 63:1-6; 1 Tim. 1:1-17; Mark 11:1-11

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Isa. 63:7-14; 1 Tim. 1:18-2:8; Mark 11:12-26

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Isa 63:15-64:9; 1 Tim. 3:1-16; Mark 11:27-12:12

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Isa. 65:1-12; 1 Tim. 4:1-16; Mark 12:13-27

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Isa. 65:17-25; 1 Tim 5:17-22(23-25); Mark 12:28-34

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Isa. 66:1-6; 1 Tim. 6:6-21; Mark 12:35-44


<Week of 7 Epiphany>

Sunday:  118; 145
  Isa. 66:7-14; 1 John 3:4-10; John 10:7-16

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Ruth 1:1-14; 2 Cor. 1:1-11; Matt. 5:1-12

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Ruth 1:15-22; 2 Cor. 1:12-22; Matt. 5:13-20

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Ruth 2:1-13; 2 Cor. 1:23-2:17; Matt. 5:21-26

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Ruth 2:14-23; 2 Cor. 3:1-18; Matt. 5:27-37

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Ruth 3:1-18; 2 Cor. 4:1-12; Matt. 5:38-48

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Ruth 4:1-17; 2 Cor. 4:13-5:10; Matt. 6:1-16


<Week of 8 Epiphany>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Deut. 4:1-9; 2 Tim. 4:1-8; John 12:1-8

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Deut. 4:9-14; 2 Cor. 10:1-18; Matt. 6:7-15

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Deut. 4:15-24; 2 Cor. 11:1-21a; Matt. 6:16-23

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Deut. 4:25-31; 2 Cor. 11:21b-33; Matt. 6:24-34

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Deut. 4:32-40; 2 Cor. 12:1-10; Matt. 7:1-12

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Deut. 5:1-22; 2 Cor. 12:11-21; Matt. 7:13-21

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Deut. 5:22-33; 2 Cor. 13:1-14; Matt. 7:22-29


<Week of Last Epiphany>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Deut. 6:1-9; Heb. 12:18-29; John 12:24-32

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Deut. 6:10-15; Heb 1:1-14; John 1:1-18

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Deut. 6:16-25; Heb 2:1-10; John 1:19-28

Ash Wednesday:  95[*] && 32,143; 102,130
  Jonah 3:1-4:11; Heb. 12:1-14; Luke 18:9-14

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Deut. 7:6-11; Titus 1:1-16; John 1:29-34

Friday:  95[*] && 31; 35
  Deut. 7:12-16; Titus 2:1-15; John 1:35-42

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Deut. 7:17-26; Titus 3:1-15; John 1:43-51

  [*] For the Invitatory


<Week of 1 Lent>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Deut. 8:1-10; 1 Cor. 1:17-31; Mark 2:18-22

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Deut. 8:11-20; Heb. 2:11-18; John 2:1-12

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Deut. 9:4-12; Heb. 3:1-11; John 2:13-22

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Deut. 9:13-21; Heb. 3:12-19; John 2:23-3:15

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 19, 46
  Deut. 9:23-10:5; Heb: 4:1-10; John 3:16-21

Friday:  95[*] && 40,54; 51
  Deut. 10:12-22; Heb. 4:11-16; John 3:22-36

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Deut. 11:18-28; Heb. 5:1-10; John 4:1-26

  [*] For the Invitatory


<Week of 2 Lent>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Jer. 1:1-10; 1 Cor. 3:11-23; Mark 3:31-4:9

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Jer. 1:11-19; Rom. 1:1-15; John 4:27-42

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Jer. 2:1-13; Rom. 1:16-25; John 4:43-54

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Jer. 3:6-18; Rom. 1:28-2:11; John 5:1-18

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Jer. 4:9-10,19-28; Rom. 2:12-24; John 5:19-29

Friday:  95[*] && 69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Jer. 5:1-9; Rom. 2:25-3:18; John 5:30-47

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Jer. 5:20-31; Rom. 3:19-31; John 7:1-13

  [*]  For the Invitatory


<Week of 3 Lent>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Jer. 6:9-15; 1 Cor. 6:12-20; Mark 5:1-20

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Jer. 7:1-15; Rom. 4:1-12; John 7:14-36

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Jer. 7:21-34; Rom. 4:13-25; John 7:37-52

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Jer. 8:18-9:6; Rom. 5:1-11; John 8:12-20

Thursday:  [83] *or* 42,43; 85, 86
  Jer. 10:11-24; Rom. 5:12-21; John 8:21-32

Friday:  95[*] && 88; 91, 92
  Jer. 11:1-8,14-20; Rom. 6:1-11; John 8:33-47

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Jer. 13:1-11; Rom. 6:12-23; John 8:47-59

  [*]  For the Invitatory


<Week of 4 Lent>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Jer. 14:1-9,17-22; Gal. 4:21-5:1; Mark 8:11-21

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Jer. 16:10-21; Rom. 7:1-12; John 6:1-15

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Jer. 17:19-27; Rom. 7:13-25; John 6:16-27

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Jer. 18:1-11; Rom. 8:1-11; John 6:27-40

Thursday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Jer. 22:13-23; Rom. 8:12-27; John 6:41-51

Friday:  95[*] && 102; 107:1-32
  Jer. 23:1-8; Rom. 8:28-39; John 6:52-59

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Jer. 23:9-15; Rom. 9:1-18; John 6:60-71

  [*] For the Inventory


<Week of 5 Lent>

Sunday:  118; 145
  Jer. 23:16-32; 1 Cor. 9:19-27; Mark 8:31-9:1

Monday:  31; 35
  Jer. 24:1-10; Rom. 9:19-23; John 9:1-17

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Jer. 25:8-17; Rom. 10:1-13; John 9:18-41

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Jer. 25:30-38; Rom. 10:14-21; John 10:1-18

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 140, 142
  Jer. 26:1-16; Rom. 11:1-12; John 10:19-42

Friday:  95[*] && 22; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Jer. 29:1,4-13; Rom. 11:13-24; John 11:1-27 *or* 12:1-10

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 42, 43
  Jer. 31:27-34; Rom. 11:25-36; John 11:28-44 *or* 12:37-50

  [*] For the Invitatory


<Holy Week>

Palm Sunday:  24, 29; 103
  Zech. 9:9-12[**] *or* Zech. 12:9-11,13:1,7-9[***]; 1 Tim. 6:12-16[**]; 
Matt. 21:12-17[***]

Monday:  51:1-18(19-20); 69:1-23
  Jer. 12:1-16; Phil. 3:1-14; John 12:9-19

Tuesday:  6, 12; 94
  Jer. 15:10-21; Phil. 3:15-21; John 12:20-26

Wednesday:  55; 74
  Jer. 17:5-10, 14-17; Phil. 4:1-13; John 12:27-26

Maundy Thursday:  102; 142, 143
  Jer. 20:7-11; 1 Cor. 10:14-17, 11:27-32; John 17:1-11(12-26)

Good Friday:  95[*] && 22; 40:1-14(15-19),54
  Wisdom 1:16-2:1,12-22 *or* Gen. 22:1-14; 1 Peter 1:10-20; John 13:36-
38[**] *or* John 19:38-42[***]

Holy Saturday:  95[**] && 88; 27
  Job 19:21-27a; Heb. 4:1-16[**]; Rom. 8:1-11[***]

  [*] For the Invitatory

  [**]  Intended for use in the morning

  [***]  Intended for use in the evening


<Easter Week>

Easter Day:  148, 149, 150; 113, 114, *or* 118
  Exod. 12:1-14[**] *or* Isa. 51:9-11[***]; ; John 1:1-18[**] *or* Luke 
24:13-35[***], *or* John 20:19-23[***]

Monday:  93, 98; 66
  Jonah 2:1-9; Acts 2:14,22-32[*]; John 14:1-14

Tuesday:  103; 111, 114
  Isa. 30:18-21; Acts 2:26-41(42-47)[*]; John 14:15-31

Wednesday:  97, 99; 115
  Micah 7:7-15; Acts 3:1-10[*]; John 15:1-11

Thursday:  146, 147; 148, 149
  Ezek. 37:1-14; Acts 3:11-26[*]; John 15:12-27

Friday:  136; 118
  Dan. 12:1-4,13; Acts 4:1-12[*]; John 16:1-15

Saturday:  145; 104
  Isa. 25:1-9; Acts 4:13-21(22-31)[*]; John 16:16-33

  [*] Duplicates the First Lesson at the Eucharist.  Readings from Year 
Two may be substituted.

  [**] Intended for use in the morning

  [***] Intended for use in the evening


<Week of 2 Easter>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Isa. 43:8-13; 1 Pet. 2:2-10; John 14:1-7

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Dan. 1:1-21; 1 John 1:1-10; John 17:1-11

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Dan. 2:1-16; 1 John 2:1-11; John 17:12-19

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Dan. 2:17-30; 1 John 2:12-17; John 17:20-26

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Dan. 2:31-49; 1 John 2:18-29; Luke 3:1-14

Friday:  16, 17; 134, 135
  Dan 3:1-18; 1 John 3:1-10; Luke 3:15-22

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Dan. 3:19-30; 1 John 3:11-18; Luke 4:1-13


<Week of 3 Easter>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Dan. 4:1-18; 1 Pet. 4:7-11; John 21:15-25

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Dan.4:19-27; 1 John 3:19-4:6; Luke 4:14-30

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Dan. 4:28-37; 1 John 4:7-21; Luke 4:31-37

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Dan. 5:1-12; 1 John 5:1-12; Luke 4:38-44

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Dan. 5:13-30; 1 John 5:13-20(21); Luke 5:1-11

Friday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Dan. 6:1-15; 2 John 1-13; Luke 5:12-26

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Dan. 6:16-28; 3 John 1-15; Luke 5:27-39


<Week of 4 Easter>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Wisdom 1:1-15; 1 Pet. 5:1-11; Matt. 7:15-29

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Wisdom 1:16-2:11,21-24; Col. 1:1-14; Luke 6:1-11

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Wisdom 3:1-9; Col 1:15-23; Luke 6:12-26

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Wisdom 4:16-5:8; Col. 1:24-2:7; Luke 6:27-38

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 114, 115
  Wisdom 5:9-23; Col. 2:8-23; Luke 6:39-49

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Wisdom 6:12-23; Col 3:1-11; Luke 7:1-17

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Wisdom 7:1-14; Col. 3:12-17; Luke 7:18-28(29-30)31-35


<Week of 5 Easter>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Wisdom 7:22-8:1; 2 Thess. 2:13-17; Matt. 7:7-14

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Wisdom 9:1,7-18; Col. (3:18-4:1)2-18; Luke 7:36-50

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Wisdom 10:1-4(5-12)13-21; Rom. 12:1-21; Luke 8:1-15

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Wisdom 13:1-9; Rom 13:1-14; Luke 8:16-25

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Wisdom 14:27-15:3; Rom. 14:1-12; Luke 8:26-39

Friday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Wisdom 16:15-17:1; Rom. 14:13-23; Luke 8:40-56

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Wisdom 19:1-8,18-22; Rom. 15:1-13; Luke 9:1-17


<Week of 6 Easter>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Ecclus. 43:1-12,27-32; 1 Tim. 3:14-4:5; Matt. 13:24-34a

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Deut. 8:1-10; James 1:1-15; Luke 9:18-27

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Deut. 8:11-20; James 1:16-27; Luke 11:1-13

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 
  Baruch 3:24-37; James 5:13-18; Luke 12:22-31

Eve of Ascension:  ; 68:1-20
  2 Kings 2:1-15; Rev. 5:1-14

Ascension Day:  8, 47; 24, 96
  Ezek. 1:1-14,24-28b; Heb. 2:5-18; Matt. 28:16-20

Friday:  85, 86; 91, 92
  Ezek. 1:28-3:3; Heb. 4:14-5:6; Luke 9:28-36

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Ezek. 3:4-17; Heb. 5:7-14; Luke 9:37-50


<Week of 7 Easter>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Ezek. 3:16-27; Eph. 2:1-10; Matt. 10:24-33,40-42

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Ezek. 4:1-17; Heb. 6:1-12; Luke 9:51-62

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Ezek. 7:10-15,23b-27; Heb. 6:13-20; Luke 10:1-17

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Ezek. 11:14-25; Heb. 7:1-17; Luke 10:17-24

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Ezek. 18:1-4,19-32; Heb. 7:18-28; Luke 10:25-37

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Ezek. 34:17-31; Heb. 8:1-13; Luke 10:38-42

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 
  Ezek. 43:1-12; Heb. 9:1-14; Luke 11:14-23

Eve of Pentecost:  ; 33
  Exod. 19:3-8a,16-20; 1 Pet. 2:4-10

The Day of Pentecost:  118; 145
  Isa. 11:1-9; 1 Cor. 2:1-13; John 14:21-29

*On the weekdays which follow, the Readings are taken from
the numbered Proper (one through six) which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost.*

Eve of Trinity Sunday:  ; 104
  Ecclus. 42:15-25; Eph. 3:14-21

Trinity Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Ecclus. 43:1-12(27-33); Eph. 4:1-16; John 1:1-18

*On the weekdays which follow, the Readings are taken from
the numbered Proper (two through seven) which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday.*


<The Season after Pentecost>

*Directions for the use of the Propers are on page 158.*


<Proper 1>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Isa. 63:7-14; 2 Tim. 1:1-14; Luke 11:24-36

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Isa. 63:15-64:9; 2 Tim. 1:15-2:13; Luke 11:37-52

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Isa. 65:1-12; 2 Tim. 2:14-26; Luke 11:53-12:12

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Isa. 65:17-25; 2 Tim. 3:1-17; Luke 12:13-31

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Isa. 66:1-6; 2 Tim. 4:1-8; Luke 12:32-48

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Isa. 66:7-14; 2 Tim. 4:9-22; Luke 12:49-59


<Proper 2>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Ruth 1:1-18; 1 Tim. 1:1-17; Luke 13:1-9

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Ruth 1:19-2:13; 1 Tim. 1:18-2:8; Luke 13:10-17

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Ruth 2:14-23; 1 Tim. 3:1-16; Luke 13:18-30

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Ruth 3:1-18; 1 Tim. 4:1-16; Luke 13:31-35

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Ruth 4:1-17; 1 Tim. 5:17-22(23-25); Luke 14:1-11

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Deut. 1:1-8; 1 Tim. 6:6-21; Luke 14:12-24


<Proper 3>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 25=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Deut. 4:1-9; Rev. 7:1-4,9-17; Matt. 12:33-45

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Deut. 4:9-14; 2 Cor. 1:1-11; Luke 14:25-35

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Deut. 4:15-24; 2 Cor. 1:12-22; Luke 15:1-10

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Deut. 4:25-31; 2 Cor. 1:23-2:17; Luke 15:1-2,11-32

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Deut. 4:32-40; 2 Cor. 3:1-18; Luke 16:1-9

Friday:  31; 35
  Deut. 5:1-22; 2 Cor. 4:1-12; Luke 16:10-17(18)

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Deut. 5:22-33; 2 Cor. 4:13-5:10; Luke 16:19-31


<Proper 4>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Deut. 11:1-12; Rev. 10:1-11; Matt. 13:44-58

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Deut. 11:13-19; 2 Cor 5:11-6:2; Luke 17:1-10

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Deut. 12:1-12; 2 Cor. 6:3-13(14-7:1); Luke 17:11-19

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Deut. 13:1-11; 2 Cor. 7:2-16; Luke 17:20-37

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 8, 84
  Deut. 16:18-20, 17:14-20; 2 Cor. 8:1-16; Luke 18:1-8

Friday:  40, 54; 51
  Deut. 26:1-11; 2 Cor. 8:16-24; Luke 18:9-14

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Deut. 29:2-15; 2 Cor. 9:1-15; Luke 18:15-30


<Proper 5>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 8=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Deut. 29:16-29; Rev. 12:1-12; Matt. 15:29-39

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Deut. 30:1-10; 2 Cor. 10:1-18; Luke 18:31-43

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Deut. 30:11-20; 2 Cor. 11:1-21a; Luke 19:1-10

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Deut. 31:30-32:14; 2 Cor. 11:21b-33; Luke 19:11-27

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Ecclus. 44:19-45:5; 2 Cor. 12:1-10; Luke 19:28-40

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Ecclus. 45:6-16; 2 Cor. 12:11-21; Luke 19:41-48

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Ecclus. 46:1-10; 2 Cor. 13:1-14; Luke 20:1-8


<Proper 6>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 15=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Ecclus. 46:11-20; Rev. 15:1-8; Matt. 18:1-14

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  1 Samuel 1:1-20; Acts 1:1-14; Luke 20:9-19

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  1 Samuel 1:21-2:11; Acts 1:15-26; Luke 20:19-26

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  1 Samuel 2:12-26; Acts 2:1-21; Luke 20:27-40

Thursday:  [83] *or* 34; 85, 86
  1 Samuel 2:27-36; Acts 2:22-36; Luke 20:41-21:4

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  1 Samuel 3:1-21; Acts 2:37-47; Luke 21:5-19

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  1 Samuel 4:1b-11; Acts 4:32-5:11; Luke 21:20-28


<Proper 7>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 22=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  1 Samuel 4:12-22; James 1:1-18; Matt. 19:23-30

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  1 Samuel 5:1-12; Acts 5:12-26; Luke 21:29-36

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  1 Samuel 6:1-16; Acts 5:27-42; Luke 21:37-22:13

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  1 Samuel 7:2-17; Acts 6:1-15; Luke 22:14-23

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  1 Samuel 8:1-22; Acts 6:15-7:16; Luke 22:24-30

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  1 Samuel 9:1-14; Acts 7:17-29; Luke 22:31-38

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  1 Samuel 9:15-10:1; Acts 7:30-43; Luke 22:39-51


<Proper 8>  =Week of Sunday closest to June 29

Sunday:  118; 145
  1 Samuel 10:1-16; Rom. 4:13-25; Matt. 21:23-32

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  1 Samuel 10:17-27; Acts 7:44-8:1a; Luke 22:52-62

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  1 Samuel 11:1-15; Acts 8:1-13; Luke 22:63-71

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  1 Samuel 12:1-6,16-25; Acts 8:14-25; Luke 23:1-12

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  1 Samuel 13:5-18; Acts 8:26-40; Luke 23:13-25

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  1 Samuel 13:19-14:15; Acts 9:1-9; Luke 23:26-31

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  1 Samuel 14:16-30; Acts 9:10-19a; Luke 23:32-43


<Proper 9>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 6=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  1 Samuel 14:36-45; Rom. 5:1-11; Matt. 22:1-14

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  1 Samuel 15:1-3,7-23; Acts 9:19b-31; Luke 23:44-56a

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  1 Samuel 15:24-35; Acts 9:32-43; Luke 23:56b-24:11

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  1 Samuel 16:1-13; Acts 10:1-16; Luke 24:12-35

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  1 Samuel 16:14-17:11; Acts 10:17-33; Luke 24:36-53

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  1 Samuel 17:17-30; Acts 10:34-48; Mark 1:1-13

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  1 Samuel 17:31-49; Acts 11:1-18; Mark 1:14-28


<Proper 10>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 13=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  1 Samuel 17:50-18:4; Rom. 10:4-17; Matt. 23:29-39

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  1 Samuel 18:5-16,27b-30; Acts 11:19-30; Mark 1:29-45

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  1 Samuel 19:1-18; Acts 12:1-17; Mark 2:1-12

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  1 Samuel 20:1-23; Acts 12:18-25; Mark 2:13-22

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  1 Samuel 20:24-42; Acts 13:1-12; Mark 2:23-3:6

Friday:  31; 35
  1 Samuel 21:1-15; Acts 13:13-25; Mark 3:7-19a

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  1 Samuel 22:1-23; Acts 23:26-43; Mark 3:19b-35


<Proper 11>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 20=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  1 Samuel 23:7-18; Rom. 11:33-12:2; Matt. 25:14-30

Monday:  41,52; 44
  1 Samuel 24:1-22; Acts 13:44-52; Mark 4:1-20

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  1 Samuel 25:1-22; Acts 14:1-18; Mark 4:21-34

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  1 Samuel 25:23-44; Acts 14:19-28; Mark 4:35-41

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 66, 67
  1 Samuel 28:3-20; Acts 15:1-11; Mark 5:1-20

Friday:  40,54; 51
  1 Samuel 31:1-13; Acts 15:12-21; Mark 5:21-43

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  2 Samuel 1:1-16; Acts 15:22-35; Mark 6:1-13


<Proper 12>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 27=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  2 Samuel 1:17-27; Rom. 12:9-21; Matt. 25:31-46

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  2 Samuel 2:1-11; Acts 15:36-16:5; Mark 6:14-29

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  2 Samuel 3:6-21; Acts 16:6-15; Mark 6:30-46

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  2 Samuel 3:22-39; Acts 16:16-24; Mark 6:47-56

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  2 Samuel 4:1-12; Acts 16:25-40; Mark 7:1-23

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  2 Samuel 5:1-12; Acts 17:1-15; Mark 7:24-37

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  2 Samuel 5:22-6:11; Acts 17:16-34; Mark 8:1-10


<Proper 13>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 3=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  2 Samuel 6:12-23; Rom. 4:7-12; John 1:43-51

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  2 Samuel 7:1-17; Acts 18:1-11; Mark 8:11-21

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  2 Samuel 7:18-29; Acts 18:12-28; Mark 8:22-33

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  2 Samuel 9:1-13; Acts 19:1-10; Mark 8:34-9:1

Thursday:  [83] *or* 145; 85, 86
  2 Samuel 11:1-27; Acts 19:11-20; Mark 9:2-13

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  2 Samuel 12:1-14; Acts 19:21-41; Mark 9:14-29

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  2 Samuel 12:15-31; Acts 20:1-16; Mark 9:30-41


<Proper 14>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 10=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  2 Samuel 13:1-22; Rom. 15:1-13; John 3:22-36

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  2 Samuel 13:23-39; Acts 20:17-38; Mark 9:42-50

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  2 Samuel 14:1-20; Acts 21:1-14; Mark 10:1-16

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  2 Samuel 14:21-33; Acts 21:15-26; Mark 10:17-31

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  2 Samuel 15:1-18; Acts 21:27-36; Mark 10:32-45

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  2 Samuel 15:19-37; Acts 21:37-22:16; Mark 10:46-52

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  2 Samuel 16:1-23; Acts 22:17-29; Mark 11:1-11


<Proper 15>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 17=

Sunday:  118; 145
  2 Samuel 17:1-23; Gal. 3:6-14; John 5:30-47

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  2 Samuel 17:24-18:8; Acts 22:30-23:11; Mark 11:12-26

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  2 Samuel 18:9-18; Acts 23:12-24; Mark 11:27-12:12

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  2 Samuel 18:19-23; Acts 23:23-35; Mark 12:13-27

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  2 Samuel 19:1-23; Acts 24:1-23; Mark 12:28-34

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  2 Samuel 19:24-43; Acts 24:24-25:12; Mark 12:35-44

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  2 Samuel 23:1-17,13-17; Acts 25:13-27; Mark 13:1-13


<Proper 16>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 24=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  2 Samuel 24:1-2,10-25; Gal. 3:23-4:7; John 8:12-20

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  1 Kings 1:5-31; Acts 26:1-23; Mark 13:14-27

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  1 Kings 1:38-2:4; Acts 26:24-27:8; Mark 13:28-37

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  1 Kings 3:1-15; Acts 27:9-26; Mark 14:1-11

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  1 Kings 3:16-28; Acts 27:27-44; Mark 14:12-26

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  1 Kings 5:1-6:1,7; Acts 28:1-16; Mark 14:27-42

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  1 Kings 7:51-8:21; Acts 28:17-31; Mark 14:43-52


<Proper 17>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 31=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  1 Kings 8:22-30(31-40); 1 Tim. 4:7b-16; John 8:47-59

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  2 Chron. 6:32-7:7; James 2:1-13; Mark 14:53-65

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  1 Kings 8:65-9:9; James 2:14-26; Mark 14:66-72

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  1 Kings 9:24-10:13; James 3:1-12; Mark 15:1-11

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  1 Kings 11:1-13; James 3:13-4:12; Mark 15:12-21

Friday:  31; 35
  1 Kings 11:26-43; James 4:13-5:6; Mark 15:22-32

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  1 Kings 12:1-20; James 5:7-12,19-20; Mark 15:33-39


<Proper 18>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 7=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11), 98; 103
  1 Kings 12:21-33; Acts 4:18-31; John 10:31-42

Monday:  41, 52; 44
  1 Kings 13:1-10; Phil. 1:1-11; Mark 15:40-47

Tuesday:  45; 47, 48
  1 Kings 16:23-34; Phil. 1:12-30; Mark 16:1-8(9-20)

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  1 Kings 17:1-24; Phil. 2:1-11; Matt. 2:1-12

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 93, 96
  1 Kings 18:1-19; Phil. 2:12-30; Matt. 2:13-23

Friday:  40,54; 51
  1 Kings 18:20-40; Phil. 3:1-16; Matt. 3:1-12

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  1 Kings 18:41-19:8; Phil. 3:17-4:7; Matt. 3:13-17


<Proper 19>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 14=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  1 Kings 19:8-21; Acts 5:34-42; John 11:45-47

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  1 Kings 21:1-16; 1 Cor. 1:1-19; Matt. 4:1-11

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  1 Kings 21:17-29; 1 Cor. 1:20-31; Matt. 4:12-17

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  1 Kings 22:1-28; 1 Cor. 2:1-13; Matt. 4:18-25

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  1 Kings 22:29-45; 1 Cor. 2:14-3:15; Matt. 5:1-10

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  2 Kings 1:2-17; 1 Cor. 3:16-23; Matt. 5:11-16

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  2 Kings 2:1-18; 1 Cor. 4:1-7; Matt. 5:17-20


<Proper 20>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 21=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  2 Kings 4:8-37; Acts 9:10-31; Luke 3:7-18

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  2 Kings 5:1-19; 1 Cor. 4:8-21; Matt. 5:21-26

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  2 Kings 5:19-27; 1 Cor. 5:1-8; Matt. 5:27-37

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  2 Kings 6:1-23; 1 Cor. 5:9-6:8; Matt. 5:38-48

Thursday:  [83] *or* 146, 147; 85, 86
  2 Kings 9:1-16; 1 Cor. 6:12-20; Matt. 6:1-6,16-18

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  2 Kings 9:17-37; 1 Cor. 7:1-9; Matt. 6:7-15

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  2 Kings 11:1-20a; 1 Cor. 7:10-24; Matt. 6:19-24


<Proper 21>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 28=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  2 Kings 17:1-18; Acts 9:36-43; Luke 5:1-11

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  2 Kings 17:24-41; 1 Cor. 7:25-31; Matt. 6:25-34

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  2 Chron. 29:1-3,30:1(2-9)10-27; 1 Cor. 7:32-40; Matt. 7:1-12

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  2 Kings 18:9-25; 1 Cor. 8:1-13; Matt. 7:13-21

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  2 Kings 18:28-37; 1 Cor. 9:1-15; Matt. 7:22-29

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  2 Kings 19:1-20; 1 Cor. 9:16-27; Matt. 8:1-17

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  2 Kings 19:21-36; 1 Cor. 10:1-13; Matt:8:18-27


<Proper 22> =Week of the Sunday closest to October 5=

Sunday:  118; 145
  2 Kings 20:1-21; Acts 12:1-17; Luke 7:11-17

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  2 Kings 21:1-18; 1 Cor. 10:14-11:1; Matt. 8:28-34

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  2 Kings 22:1-13; 1 Cor. 11:2,17-22; Matt. 9:1-8

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  2 Kings 22:14-23:3; 1 Cor. 11:23-34; Matt. 9:9-17

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  2 Kings 23:4-25; 1 Cor. 12:1-11; Matt. 9:18-26

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  2 Kings 23:36-24:17; 1 Cor. 12:12-26; Matt. 9:27-34

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Jer. 35:1-19; 1 Cor. 12:27-13:3; Matt. 9:35-10:4


<Proper 23>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 12=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Jer. 36:1-10; Acts 14:8-18; Luke 7:36-50

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Jer. 36:11-26; 1 Cor. 13:(1-3)4-13; Matt. 10:5-15

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Jer. 36:27-37:2; 1 Cor. 14:1-12; Matt. 10:16-23

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Jer. 37:3-21; 1 Cor. 14:13-25; Matt. 10:24-33

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Jer. 38:1-13; 1 Cor. 14:26-33a,37-40; Matt. 10:34-42

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Jer. 38:14-28; 1 Cor. 15:1-11; Matt. 11:1-6

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  2 Kings 25:8-12,22-26; 1 Cor. 15:12-29; Matt. 11:7-15


<Proper 24>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 19=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Jer. 29:1,4-14; Acts 16:6-15; Luke 10:1-12,17-20

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Jer. 44:1-14; 1 Cor. 15:30-41; Matt. 11:16-24

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Lam. 1:1-5(6-9)10-12; 1 Cor. 15:41-50; Matt. 11:25-30

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Lam. 2:8-15; 1 Cor. 15:51-58; Matt. 12:1-14

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Ezra 1:1-11; 1 Cor. 16:1-9; Matt. 12:15-21

Friday:  31; 35
  Ezra 3:1-13; 1 Cor 16:10-24; Matt. 12:22-32

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Ezra 4:7,11-24; Philemon 1-25; Matt. 12:33-42


<Proper 25>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 26=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Haggai 1:1-2:9; Acts 18:24-19:7; Luke 10:25-37

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Zech. 1:7-17; Rev. 1:4-20; Matt. 12:43-50

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Ezra 5:1-17; Rev. 4:1-11; Matt. 13:1-9

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Ezra 6:1-22; Rev. 5:1-10; Matt. 13:10-17

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 33
  Neh. 1-1:11; Rev. 5:11-6:11; Matt. 13:18-23

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Neh. 2:1-20; Rev. 6:12-7:4; Matt. 13:24-30

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Neh. 4:1-23; Rev. 7:(4-8)9-17; Matt. 13:31-35


<Proper 26>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 2=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Neh. 5:1-19; Acts 20:7-12; Luke 12:22-31

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Neh. 6:1-19; Rev. 10:1-11; Matt. 13:36-43

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Neh. 12:27-31a,42b-47; Rev. 11:1-19; Matt. 13:44-52

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Neh. 13:4-22; Rev. 12:1-12; Matt. 13:53-58

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Ezra 7:(1-10)11-26; Rev. 14:1-13; Matt. 14:1-12

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Ezra 7:27-28, 8:21-36; Rev. 15:1-8; Matt. 14:13-21

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Ezra 9:1-15; Rev. 17:1-14; Matt. 14:22-36


<Proper 27>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 9=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Ezra 10:1-17; Acts 24:10-21; Luke 14:12-24

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Neh. 9:1-15(16-25); Rev. 18:1-8; Matt. 15:1-20

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Neh. 9:26-38; Rev. 18:9-20; Matt. 15:21-28

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Neh. 7:73b-8:3,5-18; Rev. 18:21-24; Matt. 15:29-39

Thursday:  [83] *or* 23,27; 85, 86
  1 Macc. 1:1-28; Rev. 19:1-10; Matt. 16:1-12

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  1 Macc. 1:41-63; Rev. 19:11-16; Matt. 16:13-20

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  1 Macc. 2:1-28; Rev. 20:1-6; Mark 16:21-28


<Proper 28>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 16=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  1 Macc. 2:29-43,49-50; Acts 28:14b-23; Luke 16:1-13

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  1 Macc. 3:1-24; Rev. 20:7-15; Matt. 17:1-13

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  1 Macc. 3:25-41; Rev. 21:1-8; Matt. 17:14-21

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  1 Macc. 3:42-60; Rev. 21:9-21; Matt. 17:22-27

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  1 Macc. 4:1-25; Rev. 21:22-22:5; Matt. 18:1-9

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  1 Macc. 4:36-59; Rev. 22:6-13; Matt. 18:10-20

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Isa. 65:17-25; Rev. 22:14-21; Matt. 18:21-35


<Proper 29>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 23=

Sunday:  118; 145
  Isa. 19:19-25; Rom. 15:5-13; Luke 19:11-27

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Joel 3:1-2,9-17; 1 Pet. 1:1-12; Matt. 19:1-12

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Nahum 1:1-13; 1 Pet. 1:13-25; Matt. 19:13-22

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Obadiah 15-21; 1 Pet. 2:1-10; Matt. 19:23-30

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Zeph. 3:1-13; 1 Pet. 2:11-25; Matt. 20:1-16

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Isa. 24:14-23; 1 Pet. 3:13-4:6; Matt. 20:17-28

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Micah 7:11-20; 1 Pet. 4:7-19; Matt. 20:29-34

</Year One>

<Year Two>

<Week of 1 Advent>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Amos 1:1-5,13-2:8; 1 Thess. 5:1-11; Luke 21:5-19

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Amos 2:6-16; 2 Pet. 1:1-11; Matt. 21:1-11

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Amos 3:1-11; 2 Pet. 1:12-21; Matt. 21:12-22

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Amos 3:12-4:5; 2 Pet. 3:1-10; Matt. 21:23-32

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Amos 4:6-13; 2 Pet. 3:11-18; Matt. 21:33-46

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Amos 5:1-17; Jude 1-16; Matt. 22:1-14

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Amos 5:18-27; Jude 17-25; Matt. 22:15-22


<Week of 2 Advent>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Amos 6:1-14; 1 Thess. 5:1-11; Luke 1:57-68

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Amos 7:1-9; Rev. 1:1-8; Matt. 22:23-33

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Amos 7:10-17, 24-25; Rev. 1:9-16; Matt. 22:34-46

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Amos 8:1-14; Rev. 1:17-2:7; Matt. 23:1-12

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Amos 9:1-10; Rev. 2:8-17; Matt. 23:13-26

Friday:  31; 35
  Haggai 1:1-15; Rev. 2:18-29; Matt. 23:27-39

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Haggai 2:1-19; Rev. 3:1-6; Matt. 24:1-14


<Week of 3 Advent>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Amos 9:11-15; 2 Thess. 2:1-3,13-17; John 5:30-47

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Zech. 1:7-17; Rev. 3:7-13; Matt. 24:15-31

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Zech. 2:1-13; Rev. 3:14-22; Matt. 24:32-44

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Zech. 3:1-10; Rev. 4:1-8; Matt. 24:45-51

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 33
  Zech. 4:1-14; Rev. 4:9-5:5; Matt. 25:1-13

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Zech. 7:8-8:8; Rev. 5:6-14; Matt. 25:14-30

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Zech. 8:9-17; Rev. 6:1-17; Matt. 25:31-46


<Week of 4 Advent>

Sunday:  24,29; 8,84
  Gen 3:18-15; Rev. 12:1-10; John 3:16-21

Monday:  61,62; 112,115
  Zeph. 3:14-20; Titus 1:1-16; Luke 1:1-25

Tuesday:  66,67; 116,117
  1 Samuel 2:1b-10; Titus 2:1-10; Luke 1:26-38

Wednesday:  72; 111,113
  2 Samuel 7:1-17; Titus 2:11-3:8a; Luke 1:39-48a(48b-56)

Thursday:  80; 146,147
  2 Samuel 7:18-29; Gal. 3:1-14; Luke 1:57-66

Friday:  93, 96; 148,150
  Baruch 4:21-29; Gal. 3:15-22; Luke 1:67-80 *or* Matt. 1:1-17

Dec. 24:  45,46;
  Baruch 4:36-5:9; Gal. 3:23-4:7; Matt. 1:18-25

Christmas Eve:  ; 89:1-29
  Isa. 59:15b-21; Phil. 2:5-11


<Christmas Day and Following>

Christmas Day:  2,85; 110:1-1(6-7),132
  Micah 4:1-5,5:2-4; 1 John 4:7-16; John 3:31-26

First Sunday after Christmas:  93,96; 34
  1 Samuel 1:1-2,7b-28; Heb 2: 10-18; Matt. 1:18-25

Dec. 29:  18:1-20; 18:21-50[*] 
  2 Samuel 23:13-17b; Rev. 1:1-8; John 7:37-52

  [*] If today is Saturday, use Psalms 23 and 27 at Evening Prayer

Dec. 30:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 23,27
  1 Kings 17:17-24; Rev. 1:9-20; John 7:53-8:11

Dec. 31:  46,48; 
  1 Kings 3:5-14; 2 Cor. 5:16-6:2; John 8:12-19

Eve of Holy Name: ; 90
  Isa. 65:15b-25; Rev. 21:1-6

Holy Name:  103; 148
  Isa. 62:1-5,10-12; Col. 2:6-12; John 16:23b-30


Second Sunday after Christmas:  66,67; 145
  Wisdom 7:3-14; Col. 3:12-17; John 6:41-47

Jan. 2:  34; 33
  1 Kings 19:1-8; Eph. 4:1-16; John 6:1-14

Jan. 3:  68; 72[**]
  1 Kings 19:9-18; Eph. 4:17-32; John 6:15-27

  [**]  If today is Saturday, use Psalm 136 at Evening Prayer.

Jan. 4:  85,87; 89:1-29 [**]
  Joshua 3:14-4:7; Eph. 5:1-20; John 9:1-12,35-38

  [**] If today is Saturday, use Psalm 136 at Evening Prayer.

Jan. 5:  2, 110:1-5(6-7);
  Jonah 2:2-9; Eph. 6:10-20; John 11:17-27,38-44

Eve of Epiphany:  ; 29,98
  Isa. 66: 18-23; Rom. 15:7-13


<The Epiphany and Following>

Epiphany:  46, 97 ; 96,100
  Isa. 49:1-7; Rev. 21:22-27; Matt. 12:14-21

Jan. 7 [*]:  103; 114, 115
  Deut. 8:1-3; Col. 1:1-14; John 6:30-33,48-51

Jan. 8: 117, 118; 112, 113
  Exod. 17:1-7; Col. 1:15-23; John 7:37-52

Jan. 9:  121, 122, 123; 131, 132
  Isa. 45:14-19; Col. 1:24-2:7; John 8:12-19

Jan. 10:  138, 139:1-17(18-23); 147
  Jer. 23:1-8; Col. 2:8-23; John 10:7-17

Jan. 11:  148, 150; 91,92
  Isa. 55:3-9; Col 3:1-17; John 14:6-14

Jan. 12:  98, 99, [100]; 
  Gen. 49:1-2,8-12; Col 3:18-4:6; John 15:1-16

Eve of 1 Epiphany:  ; 104
  Isa. 61:1-9; Gal. 3:23-29, 4:4-7

  [*]  The Psalms and Readings for the dated days after Epiphany
are used only until the following Saturday Evening


<Week of 1 Epiphany>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Gen. 1:1-2:3; Eph. 1:3-14; John 1:29-34

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Gen. 2:4-9(10-15)16-25; Heb. 1:1-14; John 1:1-18

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Gen. 3:1-24; Heb. 2:1-10; John 1:19-28

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Gen. 4:1-16; Heb. 2:11-18; John 1:(29-34)35-42

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Gen. 4:17-26; Heb. 3:1-11; John 1:43-51

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Gen. 6:1-8; Heb. 3:12-19; John 2:1-12

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Gen. 6:9-22; Heb. 4:1-13; John 2:13-22


<Week of 2 Epiphany>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Gen. 7:1-10,17-23; Eph. 4:1-16; Mark 3:7-19

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Gen. 8:6-22; Heb. 4:14-5:6; John 2:23-3:15

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Gen. 9:1-17; Heb. 5:7-14; John 3:16-21

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Gen. 9:18-29; Heb. 6:1-12; John 3:22-36

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Gen. 11:1-9; Heb. 6:13-20; John 4:1-15

Friday:  31; 35
  Gen. 11:27-12:8; Heb. 7:1-17; John 4:16-26

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Gen. 12:9-13:1; Heb. 7:18-28; John 4:27-42


<Week of 3 Epiphany>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Gen. 13:2-18; Gal. 2:1-10; Mark 7:31-37

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Gen. 14:(1-7)8-24; Heb. 8:1-13; John 4:43-54

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Gen. 15:1-11,17-21; Heb. 9:1-14; John 5:1-18

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Gen. 16:1-14; Heb. 9:15-28; John 5:19-29

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 118
  Gen. 16:15-17:14; Heb. 10:1-10; John 5:30-47

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Gen. 17:15-27; Heb. 10:11-25; John 6:1-15

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Gen. 18:1-16; Heb. 10:26-39; John 6:16-27


<Week of 4 Epiphany>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Gen. 18:16-33; Gal. 5:13-25; Mark 8:22-30

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Gen. 19:1-17(18-23)24-29; Heb. 11:1-12; John 6:27-40

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Gen. 21:1-21; Heb. 11:13-22; John 6:41-51

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Gen. 22:1-18; Heb. 11:23-31; John 6:52-59

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Gen. 23:1-20; Heb. 11:32-12:2; John 6:60-71

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Gen. 24:1-27; Heb. 12:3-11; John 7:1-13

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Gen. 24:28-38,49-51; Heb. 12:12-29; John 7:14-36


<Week of 5 Epiphany>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Gen. 24:50-67; 2 Tim. 2:14-21; Mark 10:13-22

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Gen. 25:19-34; Heb. 13:1-16; John 7:37-52

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Gen. 26:1-6,12-33; Heb. 13:17-25; John 7:53-8:11

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Gen. 27:1-29; Rom. 12:1-8; John 8:12-20

Thursday:  [83] *or* 146, 147; 85, 86
  Gen. 27:30-45; Rom. 12:9-21; John 8:21-32

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Gen. 27:46-28:4,10-22; Rom. 13:1-14; John 8:33-47

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Gen. 29:1-20; Rom. 14:1-23; John 8:47-59


<Week of 6 Epiphany>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Gen. 29:20-35; 1 Tim. 3:14-4:10; Mark 10:23-31

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Gen. 30:1-24; 1 John 1:1-10; John 9:1-17

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Gen. 31:1-24; 1 John 2:1-11; John 9:18-41

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Gen. 31:25-50; 1 John 2:12-17; John 10:1-18

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Gen. 32:3-21; 1 John 2:18-29; John 10:19-30

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  32:22-33:17; 1 John 3:1-10; John 10:31-42

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Gen. 35:1-20; 1 John 3:11-18; John 11:1-16


<Week of 7 Epiphany>

Sunday:  118; 145
  Prov. 1:20-33; 2 Cor. 5:11-21 Mark 10:35-45

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Prov. 3:11-20; 1 John 3:18-4:6; John 11:17-29

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Rov. 4:1-27; 1 Joh 4:7-21; John 11:30-44

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Prov. 6:1-19; 1 Joh 5:1-12; John 11:45-54

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Prov. 7:1-27; 1 John 5:13-21; John 11:55-12:8

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Prov. 8:1-21; Philemon 1-25; John 12:9-19

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Prov. 8:22-36; 2 Tim. 1:1-14; John 12:20-26


<Week of 8 Epiphany>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Prov. 9:1-12; 2 Cor. 9.6b-15; Mark 10:46-52

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Prov. 10:1-12; 2 Tim. 1:15-2:13; John 12:27-36a

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Prov. 15:16-33; 2 Tim. 2:14-26; John 12:36b-50

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Prov. 17:1-20; 2 Tim. 3:1-17; John 13:1-20

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Prov. 21:30-22:6; 2 Tim. 4:1-8; John 13:21-30

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Prov. 23:19-21,29-24:2; 2 TIm. 4:9-22; John 13:31-38

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Prov. 25:15-28; Phil. 1:1-11; John 18:1-14


<Week of Last Epiphany>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Ecclus. 48:1-11; 2 Cor. 3:7-18; Luke 9:18-27

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Prov. 27:1-6,10-12; Phil. 2:1-13; John 18:15-18,25-27

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Prov. 30:1-4,24-33; Phil. 3:1-11; John 18:28-38

Ash Wednesday:  95[*] && 32,143; 102,130
  Amos 5:6-15; Heb. 12:1-14; Luke 18:9-14

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Hab. 3:1-10(11-15)16-18; Phil. 3:12-21; John 17:1-8

Friday:  95[*] && 31; 35
  Ezek. 18:1-4,25-32; Phil. 4:1-9; John 17:9-19

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Exek. 39:21-29; Phil. 4:10-20; John 17:20-26

  [*] For the Invitatory


<Week of 1 Lent>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Dan 9:3-10; Heb. 2:10-18; John 12:44-50

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Gen. 37:1-11; 1 Cor. 1:1-19; Mark 1:1-13

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Gen. 37:12-24; 1 Cor. 1:20-31; Mark 1:14-28

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Gen. 37:25-36; 1 Cor. 2:1-13; Mark 1:29-45

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 19, 46
  Gen. 39:1-23; 1 Cor. 2:14-3:15; Mark 2:1-12

Friday:  95[*] && 40,54; 51
  Gen. 40:1-23; 1 Cor. 3:16-23; Mark 2:13-22

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Gen. 41:1-13; 1 Cor. 4:1-7; Mark 2:23-3:6

  [*] For the Invitatory


<Week of 2 Lent>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Gen. 41:14-45; Rom. 6:3-14; John 5:19-24

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Gen. 41:46-57; 1 Cor. 4:8-20(21); Mark 3:7-19a

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Gen. 42:1-17; 1 Cor. 5:1-8; Mark 3:19b-35

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Gen. 42:18-28; 1 Cor. 5:9-6:8; Mark 4:1-20

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Gen. 42:29-38; 1 Cor. 6:12-30; Mark 4:21-34

Friday:  95[*] && 69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Gen. 43:1-15; 1 Cor. 7:1-9; Mark 4:35-41

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Gen. 43:16-34; 1 Cor. 7:10-24; Mark 5:1-20

  [*]  For the Invitatory


<Week of 3 Lent>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Gen. 44:1-17; Rom. 8:1-10; John 5:25-29

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Gen. 44:18-34; 1 Cor. 7:25-31; Mark 5:21-43

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Gen. 45:1-15; 1 Cor. 7:32-40; Mark 6:1-13

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Gen. 45:16-28; 1 Cor. 8:1-13; Mark 6:13-29

Thursday:  [83] *or* 42,43; 85, 86
  Gen. 46:1-7,28-34; 1 Cor. 9:1-15; Mark 6:30-46

Friday:  95[*] && 88; 91, 92
  Gen. 47:1-26; 1 Cor. 9:16-27; Mark 6:47-56

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Gen. 47:27-48:7; 1 Cor. 10:1-13; Mark 7:1-23


<Week of 4 Lent>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Gen. 48:8-22; Rom. 8:11-25; John 6:27-40

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Gen. 49:1-28; 1 Cor. 10:14-11:1; Mark 7:24-37

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Gen. 49:29-50:14; 1 Cor. 11:17-34; Mark 8:1-10

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Gen. 50:15-26; 1 Cor. 12:1-11; Mark 8:11-26

Thursday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Exod. 1:6-22; 1 Cor. 12:12-26; Mark 8:27-9:1

Friday:  95[*] && 102; 107:1-32
  Exod. 2:1-22; 1 Cor. 12:27-13:3; Mark 9:2-13

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Exod. 2:23-3:15; 1 Cor. 13:1-13; Mark 9:14-29

  [*] For the Inventory


<Week of 5 Lent>

Sunday:  118; 145
  Exod. 3:16-4:12; Rom. 12:1-21; John 8:46-59

Monday:  31; 35
  Exod. 4:10-20(21-26)27-31; 1 Cor. 14:1-19; Mark 9:30-41

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Exod. 5:1-6:1; 1 Cor. 14:20-33a,39-40; Mark 9:42-50

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Exod. 7:8-24; 2 Cor. 2:14-3:6; Mark 10:1-16

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 140, 142
  Exod. 7:25-8:19; 2 Cor. 3:7-18; Mark 10:17-31

Friday:  95[*] && 22; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Exod. 9:13-35; 2 Cor. 4:1-12; Mark 10:32-45

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 42, 43
  Exod. 10:21-11:8; 2 Cor. 4:13-18; Mark 10:46-52


<Holy Week>

Palm Sunday:  24, 29; 103
  Zech. 9:9-12[**] *or* Zech. 12:9-11,13:1,7-9[***]; 1 Tim. 6:12-16[**]; 
Luke 19:41-48[***]

Monday:  51:1-18(19-20); 69:1-23
  Lam. 1:1-2,6-12; 2 Cor. 1:1-7; Mark 11:12-25

Tuesday:  6, 12; 94
  Lam. 1:17-22; 2 Cor. 1:8-22; Mark 11:27-33

Wednesday:  55; 74
  Lam. 2:1-9, 14-17; 2 Cor. 1:23-2:11; Mark 12:1-11

Maundy Thursday:  102; 142, 143
  Lam. 2:10-18; 1 Cor. 10:14-17, 11:27-32; Mark 14:12-25

Good Friday:  95[*] && 22; 40:1-14(15-19),54
  Lam. 3:1-9,19-33; 1 Peter 1:10-20; John 13:36-38[**] *or* John 19:38-
42[***]

Holy Saturday:  95[*] && 88; 27
  Lam. 3:37-58; Heb. 4:1-16[**]; Rom. 8:1-11[***]

  [*] For the Invitatory

  [**]  Intended for use in the morning

  [***]  Intended for use in the evening


<Easter Week>

Easter Day:  148, 149, 150; 113, 114, *or* 118
  Exod. 12:1-14[**] *or* Isa. 51:9-11[***]; ; John 1:1-18[**] *or* Luke 
24:13-35[***], *or* John 20:19-23[***]

Monday:  93, 98; 66
  Exod. 12:14-27; 1 Cor. 15:1-11; Mark 16:1-8

Tuesday:  103; 111, 114
  Exod. 12:28-39; 1 Cor. 15:12-28; Mark 16:9-20

Wednesday:  97, 99; 115
  Exod. 12:40-51; 1 Cor. 15:(29)30-41; Matt. 28:1-16

Thursday:  146, 147; 148, 149
  Exod. 13:3-10; 1 Cor. 15:41-50; Martt. 28:16-20

Friday:  136; 118
  Exod. 13:1-2,11-16; 1 Cor. 15:51-58; Luke 24:1-12

Saturday:  145; 104
  Exod. 13:17-14:4; 2 Cor. 4:16-5:10; Mark 12:18-27


<Week of 2 Easter>

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Exod. 14:5-22; 1 Joh 1:1-7; John 14:1-7

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Exod. 14:21-31; 1 Pet. 1:1-12; John 14:(1-7)8-17

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Exod. 15:1-21; 1 Pet. 1:13-25; John 14:18-31

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Exod. 15:22-16:10; 1 Pet. 2:1-10; John 15:1-11

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Exod. 16:10-22; 1 Pet. 2:11-25; John 15:12-27

Friday:  16, 17; 134, 135
  Exod. 16:23-36; 1 Pet. 3:13-4:6; John 16:1-15

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Exod. 17:1-16; 1 Pet. 4:7-19; John 16:16-33


<Week of 3 Easter>

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Exod. 18:1-12; 1 John 2:7-17; Mark 16:9-20

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Exod. 18:13-27; 1 Pet. 5:1-14; Matt. (1:1-17),3:1-6

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Exod. 19:1-16; Col. 1:1-14; Matt. 3:7-12

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Exod. 19:16-25; Col. 1:15-23; Matt. 3:13-17

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Exod. 20:1-21; Col. 1:24-2:7; Matt. 4:1-11

Friday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Exod. 24:1-18; Col 2:8-23; Matt. 4:12-17

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Exod. 25:1-22; Col. 3:1-17; Matt. 4:18-25


<Week of 4 Easter>

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Exod. 28:1-4,30-38; 1 John 2:18-29; Mark 6:30-44

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Exod. 32:1-20; Col 3:18-4:6(7-18); Matt. 5:1-10

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Exod. 32:21-34; 1 Thess. 1:1-10; Matt. 5:11-16

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Exod. 33:1-23; 1 Thess. 2:1-12; Matt. 5:17-20

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 114, 115
  Exod. 34:1-17; 1 Thess. 2:13-20; Matt. 5:21-26

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Exod. 34:18-35; 1 Thess. 3:1-13; Matt. 5:27-37

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Exod. 40:18-38; 1 Thess. 4:1-12; Matt. 5:38-48


<Week of 5 Easter>

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Lev. 8:1-13,30-36; Heb. 12:1-14; Luke 4:16-30

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Lev. 16:1-19; 1 Thess. 4:13-18; Matt. 6:1-6,16-18

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Lev. 16:20-34; 1 Thess. 5:1-11; Matt. 6:7-15

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Lev. 19:1-18; 1 Thess. 5:12-28; Matt. 6:19-24

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Lev. 19:26-37; 2 Thess. 1:1-12; Matt. 6:25-34

Friday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Lev. 23:1-22; 2 Thess. 2:1-17; Matt. 7:1-12

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Lev. 23:23-44; 2 Thess. 3:1-18; Matt. 7:13-21


<Week of 6 Easter>

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Lev. 25:1-17; James 1:2-8,16-18; Luke 12:13-21

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Lev. 25:35-55; Col. 1:9-14; Matt. 13:1-16

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Lev. 26:1-20; 1 Tim. 2:1-6; Matt. 13:18-23

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 
  Lev. 26:27-42; Eph. 1:1-10; Matt. 22:41-46

Eve of Ascension:  ; 68:1-20
  2 Kings 2:1-15; Rev. 5:1-14

Ascension Day:  8, 47; 24, 96
  Dan. 7:9-14; Heb. 2:5-18; Matt. 28:16-20

Friday:  85, 86; 91, 92
  1 Sam. 2:1-10; Eph. 2:1-10; Matt. 7:22-27

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Num. 11:16-17,24-29; Eph. 2:11-22; Matt. 7:28-8:4


<Week of 7 Easter>

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Exod. 3:1-12; Heb. 12:18-29; Matt. Luke 10:17-24

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Joshua 1:1-9; Eph. 3:1-13; Matt. 8:5-17

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  1 Sam. 16:1-13a; Eph. 3:14-21; Matt. 8:18-27

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Isa. 4:2-6; Eph. 4:1-16; Matt. 8:28-34

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Zech. 4:1-14; Eph.4:17-32; Matt. 9:1-8

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Jer. 31:27-34; Eph. 5:1-20; Matt. 9:9-17

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 
  Ezek. 36:22-27; Eph. 6:10-24; Matt. 9:18-26

Eve of Pentecost:  ; 33
  Exod. 19:3-8a,16-20; 1 Pet. 2:4-10

The Day of Pentecost:  118; 145
  Deut. 16:9-12; Acts 4:18-21,23-33; John 4:19-26

*On the weekdays which follow, the Readings are taken from
the numbered Proper (one through six) which corresponds
most closely to the date of Pentecost.*

Eve of Trinity Sunday:  ; 104
  Ecclus. 42:15-25; Eph. 3:14-21

Trinity Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Job 38:1-11,42:1-5; Rev. 19:4-16; John 1:29-34

*On the weekdays which follow, the Readings are taken from
the numbered Proper (two through seven) which corresponds
most closely to the date of Trinity Sunday.*


<The Season after Pentecost>

*Directions for the use of the Propers are on page 158.*


<Proper 1>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Ezek. 33:1-11; 1 John 1:1-10; Matt. 9:27-34

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Ezek. 33:21-33; 1 John 2:1-11; Matt. 9:35-10:4

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Ezek. 34:1-16; 1 John 2:12-17; Matt. 10:5-15

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Ezek. 37:21b-28; 1 John 2:18-29; Matt. 10:16-23

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Ezek. 39:21-29; 1 John 3:1-10; Matt. 10:24-33

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Ezek. 47:1-12; 1 John 3:11-18; Matt. 10:34-42


<Proper 2>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Prov. 3:11-20; 1 John 3:18-4:6; Matt. 11:1-6

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Prov. 4:1-27; 1 John 4:7-21; Matt. 11:7-15

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Prov. 6:1-19; 1 John 5:1-12; Matt. 11:16-24

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Prov. 7:1-27; 1 John 5:13-21; Matt. 11:25-30

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Prov. 8:1-21; 2 John 1-13; Matt. 12:1-14

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Prov. 8:22-36; 3 John 1-15; Matt. 12:15-21


<Proper 3>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 25=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Prov. 9:1-12; Acts 8:14-25; Luke 10:25-28,38-42

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Prov. 10:1-12; 1 Tim. 1:1-17; Matt. 12:22-32

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Prov. 15:16-33; 1 Tim. 1:18-2:8; Matt. 12:33-42

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Prov. 17:1-20; 1 Tim. 3:1-16; Matt. 12:43-50

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Prov. 21:30-22:6; 1 Tim. 4:1-16; Matt. 13:24-30

Friday:  31; 35
  Prov. 23:19-21,29-24:2; 1 Tim. 5:17-22(23-25); Matt. 13:31-35

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Prov. 25:15-28; 1 Tim. 6:6-21; Matt. 13:36-43


<Proper 4>  =Week of the Sunday closest to May 11=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Eccles. 1:1-11; Acts 8:26-40; Luke 11:1-13

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Eccles. 2:1-15; Gal. 1:1-17; Matt. 13:44-52

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Ecles. 2:16-26; Gal. 1:18-2:10; Matt. 13:53-58

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Eccles. 3:1-15; Gal. 2:11-21; Matt. 14:1-12

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 8, 84
  Eccles. 3:16-4:3; Gal. 3:1-14; Mat. 14:13-21

Friday:  40, 54; 51
  Eccles. 5:1-7; Gal. 3:15-22; Matt. 14:22-36

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Eccles. 5:8-20; Gal. 3:23-4:11; Matt. 15:1-20


<Proper 5>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 8=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Eccles. 6:1-12; Acts 10:9-23; Luke 12:32-40

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Eccles. 7:1-14; Gal. 4:12-20; Matt. 15:21-28

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Eccles. 8:14-9:10; Gal. 4:21-31; Matt. 15:29-39

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Eccles. 9:11-18; Gal. 5:1-15; Matt. 16:1-12

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Eccles. 11:1-8; Gal. 5:16-24; Matt. 16:13-20

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Eccles. 11:9-12:14; Gal. 5:25-6:10; Matt. 16:21-28

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Num. 3:1-13; Gal. 6:11-18; Matt. 17:1-13


<Proper 6>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 15=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Num. 6:22-27; Acts 13:1-12; Luke 12:41-48

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Num. 9:15-23,10:29-36; Rom. 1:1-15; Matt. 17:14-21

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Num. 11:1-23; Rom. 1:16-25; Matt. 17:22-27

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Num. 11:24-33(34-35); Rom. 1:28-2:11; Matt. 18:1-9

Thursday:  [83] *or* 34; 85, 86
  Num. 12:1-16; Rom. 2:12-24; Matt. 18:10-20

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Num. 13:1-3,21-30; Rom. 2:25-3:8; Matt. 18:21-35

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Num. 13:31-14:25; Rom. 3:9-20; Matt. 19:1-12


<Proper 7>  =Week of the Sunday closest to June 22=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Num. 14:26-45; Acts 15:1-12; Luke 12:49-56

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Num. 16:1-19; Rom. 3:21-31; Matt. 19:13-22

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Num. 16:20-35; Rom. 4:1-12; Matt. 19:23-30

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Num. 16:36-50; Rom. 4:13-25; Matt. 20:1-16

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Num. 17:1-11; Rom. 5:1-11; Matt. 20:17-28

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Num. 20:1-13; Rom. 5:12-21; Matt. 20:29-34

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Num. 20:14-29; Rom. 6:1-11; Matt. 21:1-11


<Proper 8>  =Week of Sunday closest to June 29

Sunday:  118; 145
  Num. 21:4-9,21-35; Acts 17:(12-21)22-34; Luke 13:10-17

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Num. 22:1-21; Rom. 6:12-23; Matt. 21:12-22

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Num. 22:21-38; Rom. 7:1-12; Matt. 21:23-32

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Num. 22:41-23:12; Rom. 7:13-25; Matt. 21:33-46

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Num. 23:11-26; Rom. 8:1-11; Matt. 22:1-14

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Num. 24:1-13; Rom. 8:12-17; Matt. 22:15-22

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Num. 24:12-25; Rom. 8:18-25; Matt. 22:23-40


<Proper 9>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 6=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Num. 27:12-23; Acts 19:11-20; Mark 1:14-20

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Num. 32:1-6,16-27; Rom. 8:26-30; Matt. 23:1-12

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Num. 35:1-3,9-15,30-34; Rom. 8:31-39; Matt. 23:13-26

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Deut. 1:1-18; Rom. 9:1-18; Matt. 23:27-39

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Deut. 3:18-28; Rom. 9:19-33; Matt. 24:1-14

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Deut. 31:7-13,24-32:4; Rom 10:1-13; Matt. 24:15-31

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Deut. 34:1-12; Rom. 10:14-21; Matt. 24:32-51


<Proper 10>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 13=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Joshua 1:1-18; Acts 21:3-15; Mark 1:21-27

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Joshua 2:1-14; Rom. 11:1-12 Matt. 25:1-13

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Joshua 2:15-24; Rom. 11:13-24; Matt. 25:14-30

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Joshua 3:1-13; Rom. 11:25-36; Matt. 25:31-46

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Joshua 3:14-4:7; Rom. 12:1-8; Matt. 26:1-16

Friday:  31; 35
  Joshua 4:19-5:1,10-15; Rom. 12:9-21; Matt. 26:17-25

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Joshua 6:1-14; Rom. 13:1-7; Matt. 26:26-35


<Proper 11>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 20=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Joshua 6:15-27; Acts 22:30-23:11; Mark 2:1-12

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Joshua 7:1-13; Rom. 13:8-14; Matt. 26:36-46

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Joshua 8:1-22; Rom. 14:1-12; Matt. 26:47-56

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Joshua 8:30-35; Rom. 14:13-23; Matt. 26:57-68

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 66, 67
  Joshua 9:3-21; Rom. 15:1-13; Matt. 26:69-75

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Joshua 9:22-10:15; Rom. 15:14-24; Matt. 27:1-10

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Joshua 23:1-16; Rom. 15:25-33; Matt. 27:11-23


<Proper 12>  =Week of the Sunday closest to July 27=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Joshua 24:1-15; Acts 28:23-31; Mark 2:23-28

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Joshua 24:16-33; Rom. 16:1-16; Matt. 27:24-31

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Judges 2:1-5,11-23; Rom. 16:17-27; Matt. 27:32-44

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Judges 3:12-30; Acts 1:1-14; Matt. 27:45-54

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Judges 4:4-23; Acts 1:15-26; Matt. 27:55-66

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Judges 5:1-18; Acts 2:1-21; Matt. 28:1-10

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Judges 5:19-31; Acts 2:22-36; Matt. 28:11-20


<Proper 13>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 3=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Judges 6:1-24; 2 Cor. 9:6-15; Mark 3:20-30

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Judges 6:25-40; Acts 2:37-47; John 1:1-18

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Judges 7:1-18; Acts 3:1-11; John 1:19-28

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Judges 7:19-8:12; Acts 3:12-26; John 1:29-42

Thursday:  [83] *or* 145; 85, 86
  Judges 8:22-35; Acts 4:1-12; John 1:43-51

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Judges 9:1-16,19-21; Acts 4:13-31; John 2:2-12

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Judges 9:22-25,50-57; Acts 4:32-5:11; John 2:13-25


<Proper 14>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 10=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Judges 11:1-11,29-40; 2 Cor. 11:21b-31; Mark 4:35-41

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Judges 12:1-7; Acts 5:12-26; John 3:1-21

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Judges 13:1-15; Acts 5:27-42; John 3:22-36

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Judges 13:15-24; Acts 6:1-15; John 4:1-26

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Judges 14:1-19; Acts 6:15-7:16; John 4:27-42

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Judges 14:20-15:20; Acts 7:17-29; John 4:43-54

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Judges 16:1-14; Acts 7:30-43; John 5:1-18


<Proper 15>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 17=

Sunday:  118; 145
  Judges 16:15-31; 2 Cor. 13:1-11; Mark 5:25-34

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Judges 17:1-13; Acts 7:44-8:1a; John 5:19-29

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Judges 18:1-15; Acts 8:1-13; John 5:30-47

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Judges 18:16-31; Acts 8:14-25; John 6:1-15

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Job 1:1-22; Acts 8:26-40; John 6:16-27

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Job 2:1-13; Acts 9:1-9; John 6:27-40

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Job 3:1-26; Acts 9:10-19a; JOhn 6:41-51


<Proper 16>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 24=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Job 4:1-6,12-21; Rev. 4:1-11; Mark 6:1-6a

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Job 4:1,5:1-11,17-21,26-27; Acts 9:19b-31; John 6:52-59

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Job 6:1-4,8-15,21; Acts 9:32-43; John 6:60-71

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Job 6:1,7:1-21; Acts 10:1-16; John 7:1-13

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Job 6:1,7:1-21; Acts 10:17-33; John 7:14-36

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Job 9:1-15,32-35; Acts 10:34-48; John 7:37-52

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Job 9:1,10:1-9,16-22; Acts 11:1-18; John 8:12-20


<Proper 17>  =Week of the Sunday closest to August 31=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Job 11:1-9,13-20; Rev. 5:1-14; Matt. 5:1-12

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Job 12:1-6,13-25; Acts 11:19-30; John 8:21-32

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Job 12:1,13:3-17,21-27; Acts 12:1-17; John 8:33-47

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Job 12:1,14:1-22; Acts 12:18-25; John 8:47-59

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Job 16:16-22,17:1,13-16; Acts 13:1-12; John 9:1-17

Friday:  31; 35
  Job 19:1-7,14-27; Acts 13:13-25; John 9:18-41

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Job 22:1-4,21-23:7; Acts 13:26-43; John 10:1-18


<Proper 18>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 7=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11), 98; 103
  Job 25:1-6,27:1-6; Rev. 14:1-7,13; Matt. 5:13-20

Monday:  41, 52; 44
  Job 32:1-10,19-33:1,19-28; Acts 13:44-52; John 10:19-30

Tuesday:  45; 47, 48
  Job 29:1-20; Acts 14:1-18; John 10:31-42

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Job 29:1,30:1-2,16-31; Acts 14:19-28; John 11:1-16

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 93, 96
  Job 29:1,31:1-23; Acts 15:1-11; John 11:17-29

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Job 29:1,31:24-40; Acts 15:12-21; John 11:30-44

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Job 38:1-17; Acts 15:22-35; John 11:45-54


<Proper 19>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 14=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Job 38:1,18-41; Rev. 18:1-8; Matt. 5:21-26

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Job 40:1-24; Acts 15:36-16:5; John 11:55-12:8

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Job 40:1,41:1-11; Acts 16:6-15; John 12:9-19

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Job 42:1-17; Acts 16:16-24; John 12:20-26

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Job 28:1-28; Acts 16:25-40; John 12:27-36a

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Esther 1:1-4,10-19[*]; Acts 17:1-15; John 12:36b-43

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Esther 2:5-8,15-23[*]; Acts 17:16-34; John 12:44-50

  [*] In place of Esther may be read Judith:  F 4:1-15, Sa 5:1-21


<Proper 20>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 21=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Esther 3:1-4:3[*]; James 1:19-27; Matt. 6:1-6,16-18

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Esther 4:4-17[*]; Acts 18:1-11; Luke (1:1-4),3:1-14

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Esther 5:1-14[*]; Acts 18:12-28; Luke 3:15-22

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Esther 6:1-14[*]; Acts 19:1-10; Luke 4:1-13

Thursday:  [83] *or* 146, 147; 85, 86
  Esther 7:1-10[*]; Acts 19:11-20; Luke 4:14-30

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Esther 8:1-8,15-17[*]; Acts 19:21-41; Luke 4:31-37

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Hosea 1:1-2:1; Acts 20:1-16; Luke 4:38-44


<Proper 21>  =Week of the Sunday closest to September 28=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Hosea 2:2-14; James 3:1-13; Matt. 13:44-52

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Hosea 2:14-23; Acts 20:17-38; Luke 5:1-11

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Hosea 4:1-10; Acts 21:1-14; Luke 5:12-26

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Hosea 4:11-19; Acts 21:15-26; Luke 5:27-39

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Hosea 5:8-6:6; Acts 21:27-36; Luke 6:1-11

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Hosea 10:1-15; Acts 21:37-22:16; Luke 6:12-26

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Hosea 11:1-9; Acts 22:17-29; Luke 6:27-38


<Proper 22> =Week of the Sunday closest to October 5=

Sunday:  118; 145
  Hosea 13:4-14; 1 Cor. 2:6-16; Matt. 14:1-12

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Hosea 14:1-9; Acts 22:30-23:11; Luke 6:39-49

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Micah 1:1-9; Acts 23:12-24; Luke 7:1-17

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Micah 2:1-13; Acts 23:23-35; Luke 7:18-35

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Micah 3:1-8; Acts 24:1-23; Luke 7:36-50

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Micah 3:9-4:5; Acts 24:24-25:12; Luke 8:1-15

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Micah 5:1-4,10-15; Acts 25:13-27; Luke 8:16-25


<Proper 23>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 12=

Sunday:  146, 147; 111, 112, 113
  Micah 6:1-8; 1 Cor. 4:9-16; Matt. 15:21-28

Monday:  1, 2, 3; 4, 7
  Micah 7:1-7; Acts 26:1-23; Luke 8:26-39

Tuesday:  5, 6; 10, 11
  Jonah 1:1-17a; Acts 26:24-27:8; Luke 8:40-56

Wednesday:  119:1-24; 12, 13, 14
  Jonah 1:17-2:10; Acts 27:9-26; Luke 9:1-17

Thursday:  18:1-20; 18:21-50
  Jonah 3:1-4:11; Acts 27:27-44; Luke 9:18-27

Friday:  16, 17; 22
  Ecclus. 1:1-10,18-27; Acts 28:1-16; Luke 9:28-36

Saturday:  20, 21:1-7(8-14); 110:1-5(6-7), 116, 117
  Ecclus. 3:17-31; Acts 28:17-31; Luke 9:37-50


<Proper 24>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 19=

Sunday:  148, 149, 150; 114, 115
  Ecclus. 4:1-10; 1 Cor. 10:1-13; Matt. 16:13-20

Monday:  25; 9, 15
  Ecclus. 4:20-5:7; Rev. 7:1-8; Luke 9:51-62

Tuesday:  26, 28; 36, 39
  Ecclus. 6:5-17; Rev. 7:9-17; Luke 10:1-16

Wednesday:  38; 119:25-48
  Ecclus. 7:4-14; Rev. 8:1-13; Luke 10:17-24

Thursday:  37:1-18; 37:19-42
  Ecclus. 10:1-18; Rev. 9:1-12; Luke 10:25-37

Friday:  31; 35
  Ecclus. 11:2-20; Rev. 9:13-21; Luke 10:38-42

Saturday:  30, 32; 42, 43
  Ecclus. 15:9-20; Rev. 10:1-11; Luke 11:1-13


<Proper 25>  =Week of the Sunday closest to October 26=

Sunday:  63:1-8(9-11),98; 103
  Ecclus. 18:19-33; 1 Cor. 10:15-24; Matt. 18:15-20

Monday:  41,52; 44
  Ecclus. 19:4-17; Rev. 11:1-14; Luke 11:14-26

Tuesday:  45; 47,48
  Ecclus. 24:1-12; Rev. 11:14-19; Luke 11:27-36

Wednesday:  119:49-72; 49,[53]
  Ecclus. 28:14-26; Rev. 12:1-6; Luke 11:37-52

Thursday:  50; [59,60] *or* 33
  Ecclus. 31:12-18,25-32:2; Rev. 12:7-17; Luke 11:53-12:12

Friday:  40,54; 51
  Ecclus. 34:1-8,18-22; Rev. 13:1-10; Luke 12:13-31

Saturday:  55; 138,139:1-17(18-23)
  Ecclus. 35:1-17; Rev. 13:11-18; Luke 12:32-48


<Proper 26>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 2=

Sunday:  24, 29; 8, 84
  Ecclus. 36:1-17; 1 Cor. 12:27-13:13; Matt. 18:21-35

Monday:  56, 57, [58]; 64, 65
  Ecclus. 38:24-34; Rev. 14:1-13; Luke 12:49-59

Tuesday:  61, 62; 68:1-20(21-23)24-36
  Ecclus. 43:1-22; Rev. 14:14-15:8; Luke 13:1-9

Wednesday:  72; 119:73-96
  Ecclus. 43:23-33; Rev. 16:1-11; Luke 13:10-17

Thursday:  [70], 71; 74
  Ecclus. 44:1-15; Rev. 16:12-21; Luke 14:18-30

Friday:  69:1-23(24-30)31-38; 73
  Ecclus. 50:1,11-24; Rev. 17:1-18; Luke 13:31-35

Saturday:  75, 76; 23, 27
  Ecclus. 51:1-12; Rev. 18:1-14; Luke 14:1-11


<Proper 27>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 9=

Sunday:  93, 96; 34
  Ecclus. 51:13-22; 1 Cor. 14:1-12; Matt. 20:1-16

Monday:  80; 77, [79]
  Joel 1:1-13; Rev. 18:15-24; Luke 14:12-24

Tuesday:  78:1-39; 78:40-72
  Joel 1:15-2:2(3-11); Rev. 19:1-10; Luke 14:25-35

Wednesday:  119:97-120; 81, 82
  Joel 2:12-19; Rev. 19:11-21; Luke 15:1-10

Thursday:  [83] *or* 23,27; 85, 86
  Joel 2:21-27; James 1:1-15; Luke 15:1-2,11-32

Friday:  88; 91, 92
  Joel 2:28-3:8; James 1:16-27; Luke 16:1-9

Saturday:  87, 90; 136
  Joel 3:9-17; James 2:1-13; Luke 16:10-17(18)


<Proper 28>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 16=

Sunday:  66, 67; 19, 46
  Hab. 1:1-4(5-11)12-2:1; Phil. 3:13-4:1; Matt. 23:13-24

Monday:  89:1-18; 89:19-52
  Hab. 2:1-4,9-20; James 2:14-26; Luke 16:19-31

Tuesday:  97, 99, [100]; 94, [95]
  Hab. 3:1-10(11-15)16-18; James 3:1-12; Luke 17:1-10

Wednesday:  101, 109:1-4(5-19)20-30; 119:121-144
  Mal. 1:1,6-14; James 3:13-4:12; Luke 17:11-19

Thursday:  105:1-22; 105:23-45
  Mal. 2:1-16; James 4:13-5:6; Luke 17:20-37

Friday:  102; 107:1-32
  Mal. 3:1-12; James 5:7-12; Luke 18:1-8

Saturday:  107:33-43, 108:1-6(7-13); 33
  Mal. 3:13-4:6; James 5:13-20; Luke 18:9-14


<Proper 29>  =Week of the Sunday closest to November 23=

Sunday:  118; 145
  Zech. 9:9-16; 1 Pet. 3:13-22; Matt. 21:1-13

Monday:  106:1-18; 106:19-48
  Zech. 10:1-12; Gal. 6:1-10; Luke 18:15-30

Tuesday:  [120], 121, 122, 123; 124, 125, 126, [127]
  Zech. 11:4-17; 1 Cor. 3:10-23; Luke 18:31-43

Wednesday:  119:145-176; 128, 129, 130
  Zech. 12:1-10; Eph. 1:3-14; Luke 19:1-10

Thursday:  131, 132, [133]; 134, 135
  Zech. 13:1-9; Eph. 1:15-23; Luke 19:11-27

Friday:  140, 142; 141, 143:1-11(12)
  Zech. 14:1-11; Rom. 15:7-13; Luke 19:28-40

Saturday:  137:1-6(7-9), 144; 104
  Zech. 14:12-21; Phil. 2:1-11; Luke 19:41-48

</Year Two>


<page 996>

<Holy Days>

St. Andrew; November 30:  
  34; Isaiah 49:1-6; 1 Corinthians 4:1-16
  96,100; Isaiah 55:1-5; John 1:35-42

St. Thomas; December 21:  
  23,121; Job 42:1-6; 1 Peter 1:3-9
  27; Isaiah 43: 8-13; John 14:1-7

St. Stephen; December 26:  
  28,30; 2 Chronicles 24:17-22; Acts 6:1-7
  118; Wisdom 4:7-15; Acts 7:59-8:8

St. John; December 27:  
  97,98; Proverbs 8:22-30; John 13:20-35
  145; Isaiah 44:1-8; 1 John 5:1-12

Holy Innocents; December 28:  
  2,26; Isaiah 49:13-23; Matthew 18:1-14
  19,126; Isaiah 54:1-13; Mark 10:13-16

Confession of St. Peter; January 18:  
  66,67; Ezekiel 3:4-11; Acts 10:34-44
  118; Ezekiel 34:11-16; John 21:15-22

Conversion of St. Paul; January 25:  
  19; Isaiah 45:18-25; Philippians 3:4b-11
  119:89-112; Ecclesiasticus 39:1-10; Acts 9:1-22

Eve of the Presentation:  
  ; ;
  113,122; 1 Samuel 1:20-28a; Romans 8:14-21

The Presentation; February 2:  
  42, 43; 1 Samuel 2:1-10; John 8:31-36
  48,87; Haggai 2:1-9; 1 John 3:1-8

St. Matthias; February 24:  
  80; 1 Samuel 16:1-13; 1 John 2:18-25
  33; 1 Samuel 12:1-5; Acts 20:17-35

St. Joseph; March 19:  
  132; Isaiah 63:7-16; Matthew 1:18-25
  34; 2 Chronicles 6:12-17; Ephesians 3:14-21

Eve of the Annunciation
  ;;
  8, 138; Genesis 3:1-15; Romans 5:12-21 or Galatians 4:1-7

The Annunciation; March 25:  
  85, 87; Isaiah 52:7-12; Hebrews 2:5-10
  110:1-5(6-7),132; Wisdom 9:1-12; John 1:9-14

St. Mark; April 25:
  145; Ecclesiasticus 2:1-11; Acts 12:25-13:3
  67, 96; Isaiah 62:6-12; 2 Timothy 4:1-11

SS. Philip & James; May 1:
  119:137-160; Job 23:1-12; John 1:43-51
  139; Proverbs 4:7-18; John 12:20-26

Eve of the Visitation:
  ;;
  132; Isaiah 11:1-10; Hebrews 2:11-18

The Visitation; May 31:
  72; 1 Samuel 1:1-20; Hebrews 3:1-6
  146,147; Zechariah 2:10-13; John 3:25-30

St. Barnabas; June 11:
  15,67; Ecclesiasticus 31:3-11; Acts 4:32-37
  19, 146; Job 29:1-16; Acts 9:26-31

Eve of St. John the Baptist:
  ;;
  103; Ecclesiasticus 48:1-11; Luke 1:5-23

Nativity of St. John the Baptist; June 24:
  82, 98; Malachi 3:1-5; John 3:22-30
  80; Malachi 4:1-6; Matthew 11:2-19

SS. Peter & Paul; June 29:
  66; Ezekiel 2:1-7; Acts 11:1-18
  97, 138; Isaiah 49:1-6; Galatians 2:1-9

Independence Day; July 4:
  33; Ecclesiasticus 10:1-8,12-18; James 5:7-10
  107:1-32; Micah 4:1-5; Revelation 21:1-7

St. Mary Magdalene; July 22:
  116; Zephaniah 3:14-20; Mark 15:14-20
  30, 149; Exodus 15:19-21; 2 Corinthians 1:3-7

St. James; July 25:
  34; Jeremiah 16:14-21; Mark 1:14-20
  33; Jeremiah 26:1-15; Matthew 10:16-32

Eve of the Tranfiguration:
  ;;
  84; 1 Kings 19:1-12; 2 Corinthians 3:1-9,18

The Transfiguration; August 6;
  2,24; Exodus 24:12-18; 2 Corinthians 4:1-6
  72; Daniel 7:9-10,13-14; John 12:27-36a

St. Mary the Virgin; August 15:
  113, 115; 1 Samuel 2:1-10; John 2:1-12
  45, *or* 138, 149; Jeremiah 31:1-14 *or* Zechariah 2:10-13; John 
19:23-27 *or* Acts 1:6-14

St. Bartholomew; August 24:
  86; Genesis 28:10-17; John 1:43-51
  15, 67; Isaiah 66:1-2,18-23; 1 Peter 5:1-11

Eve of Holy Cross:
  ;;
  46, 87; 1 Kings 8:22-30; Ephesians 2:11-22

Holy Cross Day; September 14:
  66; Numbers 21:4-9; John 3:11-17
  118; Genesis 3:1-15; 1 Peter 3:17-22

St. Matthew; September 21:
  119:41-64; Isaiah 8:11-20; Romans 10:1-15
  19, 112; Job 28:12-28; Matthew 13:44-52

St. Michael & All Angels; September 29:
  8, 148; Job 38:1-7; Hebrews 1:1-14
  34, 150, *or* 104; Daniel 12:1-3 *or* 2 Kings 6:8-17; Mark 13:21-27 
*or* Revelation 5:1-14

St. Luke; October 18:
  103; Ezekiel 47:1-12; Luke 1:1-4
  67, 96; Isaiah 52:7-10; Acts 1:1-8

St. James of Jerusalem; October 23:
  119:145-168; Jeremiah 11:18-23; Matthew 10:16-22
  122,125; Isaiah 65:17-25; Hebrews 12:12-24

SS. Simon & Jude; October 28:
  66; Isaiah 28:9-16; Ephesians 4:1-16
  116,117; Isaiah 4:2-6; John 14:15-31

Eve of All Saints:
  ;;
  34; Wisdom 3:1-9; Revelation 19:1,4-10

All Saints' Day; November 1:
  111,112; 2 Esdras 2:42-47; Hebrews 11:32-12:2
  148,150; Wisdom 5:1-5,14-16; Revelation 21:1-4,22--22:5

Thanksgiving Day:
  147; Deuteronomy 26:1-11; John 6:26-35
  145; Joel 2:21-27; 1 Thessalonians 5:12-24


<Special Occasions>

Eve of the Dedication:
  ;;
  48,122; Haggai 2:1-9; 1 Corinthians 3:9-17

Anniversary of the Dedication of a Church:
  132; 1 Kings 8:1-13; John 10:22-30
  29, 46; 1 Kings 8:54-62; Hebrews 10:19-25

Eve of the Patronal Feast:
  ;;
  27, *or* 116,117; Isaiah 49:1-13 *or* Ecclesiasticus 51:6b-12;  
Ephesians 4:1-13 *or* Revelation 7:9-17 *or* Luke 10:38-42

The Patronal Feast:
  92,93, *or* 148, 149; Isaiah 52:7-10 *or* Job 5:8-21; Acts 4:5-13 *or* 
Luke 12:1-12
  96,97 *or* 111,112; Jeremiah 31:10-14 *or* Ecclesiasticus 2:7-18; 
Romans 12:1-21 *or* Luke 21:10-19

Eves of Apostles and Evangelists:
  ;;
  48, 122, *or* 84, 150; Isaiah 43:10-15[*] *or* Isaiah 52:7-10[**]; 
Revelation 21:1-4,9-14 *or* Matthew 9:35-10:4

  [*] Except on the Eve of St. Thomas
  [**] Except on the Eves of St. Mark and St. Luke






