                              PEOPLE OF THE BIBLE



                                     CAIN




GEN 4:1  And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said,
I have gotten a man from the LORD.  

GEN 4:3  And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit
of the ground an offering unto the LORD.  

GEN 4:4  And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat
thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:  

GEN 4:5  But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very
wroth, and his countenance fell.  

GEN 4:6  And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countenance fallen?  

GEN 4:7  If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not
well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt
rule over him.  

GEN 4:8  And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they
were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.  

GEN 4:9  And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I
know not: Am I my brother's keeper?  

GEN 4:10  And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood
crieth unto me from the ground.  

GEN 4:11  And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to
receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;  

GEN 4:12  When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee
her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.  

GEN 4:13  And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear. 


GEN 4:14  Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth;
and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in
the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay
me.  

GEN 4:15  And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain,
lest any finding him should kill him.  

GEN 4:16  And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land
of Nod, on the east of Eden.  

GEN 4:17  And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son,
Enoch.  

GEN 4:18  And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael
begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.  

HEB 11:4  By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain,
by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts:
and by it he being dead yet speaketh.  

1JO 3:12  Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And
wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's
righteous.  

JUD 1:11  Woe unto them! for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily
after the error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Core.  




                        ==============================


                                      THE

                       <E>LECTRONIC <L>IBRARY E<X>CHANGE


                                P.O. BOX 19454

                            DENVER, COLORADO  80219


                              BBS:  303-935-6323

                             FIDONET:  1:104/810.0

                           THENETWORK:  8:7703/11.0


                                  End Of File
