Why Michael and Jesus Christ are not the same being.

1)	Michael, as an angel, was created. Jesus, however, as Son of God, is
the One by Whom Rall things were created, things in heaven and on earth,
visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or
authorities; all things were created by Him and for Him.S (Colossians
1:16). Since the Watchtower Society delights in +logical+ conclusions,
allow a logician to ask this: can anything be both +A+ and +non-A+ in
nature? Certainly not! An oak tree cannot be anything but an oak tree. A
field mouse cannot live under water like a frog; its useless to even
suggest it. So, consider this: Jesus cannot have created =all= things
and Himself be created.

2)	While Michael is an angel, albeit of the highest order, Jesus Christ
is above the angels. RFor to =which= of the angels did God =ever= say,
You are my Son; today I have become Your FatherS (Hebrews 1:5). By using
the words =which= and =ever= the author purposely limits the
interpretation of this verse. Jesus cannot be an angel; the text does
not allow it. The first chapter of Hebrews is extremely vivid in its
explanation of who Jesus Christ is and is not. The Father calls Him
RSonS, and intentionally sets Him apart from the angels.

The Watchtower Society has from the beginning denied the deity of
Christ, His bodily resurrection from the dead, the existence of hell,
the efficacy of the Cross to forgive sin and provide redemption, and
most other key teachings of the Bible. They claim to have the only hold
on the truth, and yet, teach the oldest lie in the world. Satan first
used it with Eve when he said, Ryou will be like GodS. I challenge
Jehovah+s Witnesses to examine the claims of scripture without the
filter of Charles Taze Russell clouding their vision.

Greg Lawhorn 73507,2332
