



                                  JUDAISM



     The Jewish tradition teaches that Abraham, the father of the Jewish
people, made an agreement promising to worship God and spread his word.  One
legend says that God offered the bible and the ten commandments to other
nations before he offered it to Israel.  The others refused because they
thought that God was asking to much of them.

     In the religion of Judaism, there are many feasts, fasts, and holidays to
remember past events in the history of Judaism.  Some of these include Rosh
Hashanah, Tzom Gedaliah, Yom Kippur, Hanukkah and Passover.  Rosh Hashanah
comes around in September or October.  This day celebrates the Jewish New Year.
Tzom Gedaliah also comes around in September or October.  On this day the
Jewish followers fast to remember the assassination of the Jewish ruler
Gedaliah.  In September or October Yom Kipper occurs.  This day is a day of
Atonement and is the holiest day in the Jewish year.  On this day people fast.
and the months of either December or January comes Hanukkah.  This day is the
feast of dedication to honor the defeat over the Syrians and the rededication
of the temple in 165 B.C.  In the months of either march or April comes
Passover.  This is a festival of freedom to remember the exodus from Egypt.

     On a Jew's thirteenth birthday, a male has a barmitzvah and the female has
a Bosmitzvah to celebrate them becoming an adult.  One consists of a ceremony
in the morning followed by a celebration in the evening.

     Judaism is divided into three categories, Orthodox Judaism, Conservative
Judaism, and Reform Judaism.  Orthodox Jews strictly observe Jewish laws and
traditions.  They rely on laws stated in the book of codes, Shulan Aruk, and on
the decisions of recognized, learned, orthodox rabbis. Men and Boys wear
yarmulkas, skull caps, or hats at all times as a sign of respect to God. The
Orthodox keep the Sabbath as a complete day of rest, prayer, and devotion and 
they strictly observe all dietary rules.

     Conservative Jews are expected to observe the dietary laws and keep the
Sabbath and festivals.  Conservatives recognize the authority of Jewish law and
tradition as divine.

     Reform Jews believe that each generation has the right to accept, reject,
or modify the traditions it has received.  Men often wear no hats or prayer
shawls in their praying sessions.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
