                       JESUS LOVES YOU!

                        KILL YOURSELF!

The humiliation and joyless vapidity of daily existence, where life is only
survival, is a part of necessary suffering, in accord with HIS plan, which will
cleanse your soul for the afterlife to come.

So, brothers and sisters of the Cross, you who have accepted Jesus Christ into
your hearts, who have forgiven your trespassers, and who regard the daily plate
of excrement as the Holy Sacrament of Fate, give that final testimony of Faith
and

                   Leap for the Lord!


(insert map to local cliff, high bridge, etc. here)

Come Children of GOD, to ___(local landmark)__ on __(date & time)__ for the
first Annual MEET-YOUR-MAKER Marathon and punctuate your life of rigorous
devotion and concientious self denial with the SUPREME Sacrifice:

                    Jump For JESUS!!


(You sociopathic heretics who believe that boredom ISN'T the will of GOD, Who
say that its the commodity economy and its capitalist pimps (forgive them
Jesus!) that reduce men and women to mere objects in the order of things, and
who have yet to recognize the impossibility of changing life on Earth, call the
TCC at (-----------) so that we can help you dispell such blasphemous ideas and
welcome you into the company of JESUS!)

So as to dispell any unintended illusions, let us, as a great American once
said, make a few things perfectly clear:

It is not because we fear our own freedom that we'll sibmit to any degradation
and to the authorities who enforce it, but because it is only in tha acceptance
of our destiny that any freedom can be found!

The amoral advocates of unbridled passion and world revolution are just
HELL-BOUND HEDONISTS who don't know selfless renunciation is the only path to
heavenly bliss.  They say that our movemant for spiritual discaovery is an
Emotional Plague that infects those whose daily squalor and anemic will to live
has made tham despair about ever changing life.  But how can it be?  It is our
Only Hope! Furthermore, let us rectify once and for all the SATANIC UNTRUTH
that the religious exitation we receive from being close to JESUS is only a
sublimation of our repressed sexuality.  After all, every good Christian knows
that geintals are the TOOLS OF THE DEVIL and that orgasms are just REVOLTING
SEIZURES OF SIN experienced by those into whom the love and light of GOD have
not penetrated!  And when the atheistic anarchists of todyas wayward youth say
that GOD only represents  the projected ideal image and the repository of Man's
own alienated powers, they mouth an IRREDEEMABLE SACRILEGE!!!

For those who do know the LORD, the Kingdom of Heaven awaits YOU!  Jesus died
for YOU!  You owe him at Least Your Life!!  So don't forget to join your
enlightened Brethern in Christ on __(date and time)__ for the Big Baptism in
the (lake, river, etc.).  See you on the other side!

                                   Power to the Passive!

                                   The Christian Connection
                                   Christian World Liberation Front


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
