#
        THE TRINITY

     The word TRINITY is not found in the BIBLE. There is no religious
significance or value in the word, alone. What is special is the
understanding of the TRIUNE nature of the ONE GOD. We can best explain
this by stating that we, ourselves, exist as a triune entity.

We have a BODY (flesh) that we walk and talk and touch with.
We have a MIND (soul) that is our will and our intellect.
We have a SPIRIT that controls our very nature - this can be the old
or "worldly" spirit or the NEW spirit received by being "born again".

     If you could take away your mind, you no longer are you. If you
take away your spirit, you cease to behave like yourself. If you take
away your body - well, that doesn't need to be expressed, does it?
Only when all THREE of you are "together" are you really the ONE
person that we all know and love (?).

     Within the NATURE of ONE GOD, there are THREE eternal MINISTERS
or persons: God the FATHER, God the SON and GOD the HOLY SPIRIT. One
GOD by essence, eternally complete and immutable (meaning without
possibility of change - or unchanging). Many "cults" today attempt to
deal with these MINISTERS as separate GODS; However, the BIBLE clearly
states that there is but ONE GOD.

     Deuteronomy 6:4 and 32:39 - Isaiah 43:10 to 11 and 44:6 to 8
Psalm 86:10 - Mark 12:29 - Galatians 3:20 - I Corinthians 8:4,6

     While ONE GOD is expressed, THREE MINISTERING ENTITIES are shown
throughout the Bible. EACH entity is shown to have the same attributes
and authority that is given to the other entity. At no time is one
entity shown to be greater or lesser than the other. It may be best to
express this by stating that each ENTITY ministers to us in a SPECIFIC
and clearly designed manner as needed by each of us. These attributes
are:

                   CREATOR
       FATHER              JESUS         HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  Isaiah 64:8 & 44:24     John 1:3     Job 26:13 & 33:4
  Genesis 1:1            Hebrews 1:2
  Revelation 4:8,11   Colossians 1:15-17

                  INDWELL US
       FATHER              JESUS         HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  2 Corinthians 6:16    Colossians 1:27     John 14:17
    Romans 8:10           Romans 8:9
   Galatians 2:20         I Cor 3:16

                FIRST AND LAST
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Isaiah 43:10      Revelation 1:17
  Revelation 21:6   Revelation 2:8 and 22:13

                ALPHA AND OMEGA
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Revelation 1:8    Revelation 22:13,16
  Revelation 21:6

                     I AM
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Exodus 3:14,15     John 8:58

                   IMMANUEL
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Isaiah 8:8         Isaiah 7:14
                     Matthew 1:23

                 RESURRECTION
  FATHER             JESUS               HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  I Thessalonians 1:10   John 2:19       Romans 8:11
  Acts 2:32 17:30,31

               DRAWS AND CONVICTS
  FATHER             JESUS               HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  John 6:44        John 12:32             I Cor 12:3
  John 12:32       John 16:13-15

                  LIFE GIVER
  FATHER             JESUS               HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  Genesis 2:7     John 1:3,4 17:2       2 Cor 3:6,17

                    SAVIOR
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Isaiah 43:3       John 4:42
  Psalm 106:21      1 John 4:14
  Isaiah 45:21-23    Acts 4:12 20:28

                TO BE WORSHIPPED:
   "EVERY KNEE SHALL BOW, EVERY TONGUE CONFESS.."
   FATHER            JESUS
  ____________________________________________________
  Isaiah 45:22,23   Philippians 2:10
  Romans 14:10,11   Matthew 28:18

                     JUDGE
  FATHER             JESUS               HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
  Joel 3:12        2 Cor 5:10             John 16:8
  Genesis 18:25   2 Timothy 4:1

                    IS GOD
  FATHER             JESUS               HOLY SPIRIT
  ____________________________________________________
 John 5:18        John 1:1,14            Acts 5:3,4
 I Cor 1:3        John 20:28

                 THREE PERSONS
 I John 5:7 | Matthew 28:19 | Romans 8:9 | Titus 3:4-6
 Jude 20,21 | Matthew 3:16,17

       THE REAL HOLY SPIRIT
In Mormonism the "Holy Ghost" is a personage, or a god, but the "Holy
Spirit" is an impersonal force. The Mormons refer to verses that the
Holy Spirit is symbolized by oil, fire and water and show that these
are "impersonal". The Bible referes to the Father and the Son as
"bread of life", "living water" and other "impersonal" terms. Again,
we must look at the context. In John 16:7, our Lord is placing His
emphasis on His going away and the Holy Spirit's being sent by the
Father to replace our Lord himself. This change (or replacement),
Jesus says, would be beneficial for His disciples. AN IMPERSONAL FORCE
COULD HARDLY IMPROVE ON THE PERSONAL PRESENCE OF OUR LORD, JESUS
CHRIST! The word in Hebrew and the word in Greek for SPIRIT and
GHOST both mean the same, "breath or wind" and the "translators" of
the King James Bible noted that the Greek word denoted a neuter gender
and mistranslated to be an "IT", but they did utilize the word Ghost
and Spirit and interchanged them on many occassions. The words as
translated are from only ONE word in Hebrew and ONE word in Greek -
therefore there is NOT two words for SPIRIT and GHOST - only ONE. Now,
let's look at this ONE entity called the HOLY SPIRIT. In John 16:13
and 14 we see our Lord, Jesus telling us this about the Holy Spirit,
"HE shall not speak of HIMSELF ... HE shall glorify me ... HE shall
receive of mine ....". NOTE that our LORD gives PERSONALITY to the
Spirit. Otherwise our Lord would have used the term that Mormons use
"IT".

     Jesus repeatedly (John 16:7-15) uses the MASCULINE PERSONAL
pronoun "He" when referring to the Spirit. Jesus used the term clearly
to tell us that the Spirit had personality and intimacy.

     Ananias was struck dead for lying to the HOLY SPIRIT (Acts 5:3).
You cannot lie to an impersonal force! It would be like walking up to
a window box fan, turning it on and facing its "force" and then
telling lie after lie to it - IT WOULD NOT CARE THE SLIGHEST, WOULD
IT? Now, you look at Ananias and, if you are not a complete idiot, you
would not repeat his behavior, now would you? The Holy Spirit and the
Holy Ghost are not two different items mentioned in the Bible. There
is only one entity referred to as both HOLY GHOST and HOLY SPIRIT.

     The Holy Spirit is a person. The Spirit may be "grieved"
(Ephesians 4:30) and "sinned against" by UNFORGIVABLE blasphemy (Mark
3:29). None of these things are possible for an "impersonal force".

      The Holy Ghost does things which only a person COULD do.

        He SPEAKS:
 "The Spirit said unto Philip, 'Go near'" (Acts 8:29)

        He STRIVES:
 "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever" (Genesis 6:3)
- "The Spirit also helpeth our infirmity ... [and] MAKETH INTERCESSION
for us." (Romans 8:26)

     He REVEALS, SEARCHES, and KNOWS:
"But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the Spirit
searcheth all things ... the things of God knoweth no man but the
Spirit of God" (I Corinthians 2:10,11). Other verses can be shown that
the Spirit IDENTIFIES with believers (Acts 15:28), The Spirit is
ETERNAL (Hebrews 9:14), OMNIPRESENT (Psalm 139:7-10), DOES GOD'S WORK
(Genesis 1:2), INVOLVED IN REGENERATION (John 3:8), participates in
the RESURRECTION (Romans 8:11).

     Paul identifies the Spirit as the speaker to Isaiah. Acts
28:25-26 and Isaiah 6:8,9. An impersonal force does not counsel,
speak, feel, or anything resembling personality. The HOLY SPIRIT is a
person - one of the THREE ENTITIES of the ONE TRUE GOD.

     There is but ONE GOD. Yet the THREE PERSONS or MINISTERS - the
FATHER, the SON and the HOLY SPIRIT (GHOST) - are eternally linked and
spoken of as ONE in their existance, authority and power. You cannot
separate them into three separate gods.

    If A=D and B=D and C=D, then A=B=C=D!
       If the Father if God
          and
       If the Son is God
          and
      If the Holy Sprit is God
          then

The Father equals the Son equals the Spirit equals TRUE GOD

Computers For Christ - San Jose, CA


