BIBLE VERSIONS AND TRANSLATION

It is crucial that we have a Bible that is pure, one that is properly 
translated from the preserved text of Scripture. We need a sharp Sword of 
the Spirit, not a dull corrupted sword. Every Christian should have a basic 
understanding of Bible versions. While you do not have to be a Greek 
scholar nor possess a Ph.D. to grasp these matters, it is essential that 
you be willing to devote careful study to it. In this section we have 
attempted to bring together some of the best materials on the subject for 
our readers.

It is our opinion that the ten-chapter section of the book True or False 
entitled "Which Version?" by Philip Mauro is one of the best overviews of 
the Bible text issue in print. We also recommend Modern Bibles: The Dark 
Secret by Jack Moorman for a relatively short, but very helpful and 
effective overview of the subject. Our own five-booklet set, Myths about 
the King James Bible, deals with many of the arguments commonly used 
against the Authorized Version.

For those interested in teaching this subject, we recommend three works: 
Defending the King James Bible, Forever Settled, and English Bible: 
Manuscript Evidences.


APOCRYPHAL BOOKS, THE (DAVID CLOUD) [WOL460B] Why we must reject the Roman 
Catholic additions to the Bible. $1.00

BIBLE DOCTRINES AFFECTED BY NEW MODERN VERSIONS (PAUL FREEMAN) [WOL318B] 
Conclusive evidence of doctrinal differences in the new Bible versions. 
$1.60

BIBLE PRESERVATION (Dean Burgon Society) [178P] Consider what the Bible 
teaches about this most important but often neglected doctrine. $ .40

CAREFUL LOOK AT THE NEW KING JAMES VERSION, A (M.H. REYNOLDS) [170P] $ .20

COMMON BIBLE, A (TBS) [169P] A look at the growing collusion between the 
United Bible Societies and the Roman Catholic Church in Bible translation 
and distribution. $ .35

CONIES, BRASS, AND EASTER (JACK MOORMAN) [422B] This important book 
contains answers to passages which some say are problems or errors in the 
King James Version. "Problems" considered include "Easter" in Acts 12:47, 
conies or rock badgers, damnation or condemnation, "Holy thing" in Luke 
1:35, the use of italics in 1 John 2:23, and "the Son of God" in Dan. 3:25. 
Moorman also looks at the matter of Elizabethan English and archaic words 
in the KJV. $4.00

CRITICAL EVALUATION OF THE NEW AMERICAN STANDARD VERSION, A (D.K. MADDEN) 
[WOL001B] Includes remarks on the NASV as well as the NIV. $1.75

DEFECTS OF THE SO-CALLED "MAJORITY GREEK TEXT" (D.A. WAITE) [177B] The 
"Majority Text," published by Thomas Nelson in 1983, is another attempt to    
displace the God-honored Received Text underlying the KJV. Waite's study 
shows the fallacy of the methodology behind the creation of this text. 
$ .75

DEFENDING THE KING JAMES BIBLE (D.A. Waite) [419B] A new book by Dr. Waite, 
director of Bible for Today ministries, showing the four-fold superiority 
of the King James Bible: It is superior in its texts, in its translators, 
in its technique, and in its theology. Dr. Waite is an uncompromising 
fundamental Baptist, a gentleman, and a scholar. His work combines true 
scholarship with a genuine zeal for the Truth--a rare combination! This 
book is the fruit of 21 years of careful research. The editor of Way of 
Life Literature highly recommends this work. It can be used as a textbook 
on the subject. 307 pages. $12.00

DOCTRINAL CORRUPTIONS IN MODERN BIBLES (AUDIO CASSETTE) (PAUL FREEMAN) 
[360C] (2 tapes) Two 90-minute tapes containing a series of messages 
Evangelist Freeman delivered during Sunday School services. Gives evidence 
that the new Bibles based on the Westcott-Hort text are no better than the 
Jehovah's Witness Bible. The same passages are corrupted. Excellent! $5.00

DYNAMIC EQUIVALENCY: DEATH KNELL OF PURE SCRIPTURE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL059B] A 
study on the dynamic equivalency method of Bible translation which is 
incorporated in versions such as Good News for Modern Man. The author shows 
that this terribly corrupt method is being used widely in Bible translation 
work around the world, and sounds an urgent warning.$3.25

ENGLISH BIBLE: MANUSCRIPT EVIDENCES (ROBERT SARGENT) [413B] A lecture 
course designed specifically to assist pastors in the training of their 
members. This very thorough course deals with the biblical and historical 
reasons for upholding the Authorized King James Version as the pure, 
preserved Word of God in English. Three hundred and five 8 1/2 X 11 pages 
of typeset lecture notes, including charts, study questions, and 
assignments. 52 pages of Appendices list the major Papyrus, Uncial, and 
Minuscule manuscripts, plus English translations since 1611 A.D. $25.00

ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND BIBLE PRESERVATION, THE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL179B] A look 
at the importance of the English language in the preservation of Scripture. 
In The Truth about the King James Version Controversy, Dr. Stewart Custer 
of Bob Jones University says that to view any English Version as the pure 
Word of God is a provincial mentality. The truth is that by God's design 
the English language has become the most important language in the world, 
and to think that God would pay special attention to the English Bible 
which would be carried to the ends of the earth is not provincial at all! 
$3.00

EVALUATING VERSIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT (EVERETT FOWLER) [006B] In our 
opinion, this is one of the very best books on this subject. It has a 
clear, concise introduction into the issues surrounding the different texts 
and versions. This is followed by a detailed and tremendously useful study 
of the differences between most major Greek texts and English translations. 
It shows the verses, clauses, and words changed, omitted, and added to the 
Westcott-Hort text and the translations which follow it. Mr. Fowler put a 
vast amount of research into the development of this thorough study, and it    
has been revised with the assistance of other scholars since the first 
printing. The exact number of word differences and the significance of the 
differences are tabulated comparing the Received Text with four modern 
Greek texts and ten modern English versions. $6.00

FOREVER SETTLED (JACK MOORMAN) [361B] This large- format 212-page study is 
a thorough overview of the issue of Bible preservation. There are five 
sections: A survey of the Old Testament documents, The issues we face 
regarding the New Testament Text, The Witness of the Early church fathers 
to the Received Text, A survey of the New Testament documents, and A survey 
of English Bible history. This study is used as a textbook in Harold 
Sightler's school in Greensville, South Carolina, as well as at Pensacola 
Christian College. $21.00

FROM THE NASV TO THE KJV (BOOK) (FRANK LOGSDON) [WOL347B] Dr. Logsdon 
helped form the committee which produced the New American Standard Version 
(as well as the Amplified Bible) and was a personal friend of Mr. Lockman, 
who financed the NASV. This is Logsdon's testimony of how he came to 
understand that the Westcott-Hort text was corrupted and of his public 
repudiation of the modern versions. $1.50

FROM THE NASV TO THE KJV (AUDIO CASSETTE) (FRANK LOGSDON) [346C] See above 
for description. 4.00

GOD WAS MANIFEST IN THE FLESH (TBS) [165B] A thrilling study which proves 
that the reading of the KJV in 1 Tim. 3:16 is correct. Indeed, God WAS 
manifest in the flesh! $ .75

GOOD NEWS FOR MODERN MAN [See Most Frightful Deception, A.]

HOW WE GOT OUR BIBLE [098P] The wonderful story of the history of the 
English Bible. $ .20

IS THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROVINCIAL? [See English Language and Bible 
Preservation, The.]

IS THE NEW KING JAMES BIBLE THE WORD OF GOD? (ROBERT SARGENT) [453P] $ .20

LIVING BIBLE: BLESSING OR CURSE? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL321B] This look at the 
Living Bible not only details its corruption but its amazing worldwide 
influence. You might be surprised that Christian leaders and professional 
Bible translators are calling The Living Bible the best English version. 
Includes a list of Christian leaders who recommend The Living Bible. $2.25

MAJORITY TEXT: MOVING AWAY FROM PRESERVED SCRIPTURE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL132B] 
The "Majority Text," published by Thomas Nelson in 1983, is supposed to be 
an attempt to purify the supposed corruptions of the Received Text 
underlying the KJV. In reality it is merely another attempt to displace the 
God-honored Received Text. This study shows the fallacy of the methodology 
used to create this text. $1.25

MAJORITY TEXT [See also Defects of the So- called "Majority Text" and When 
the KJV Departs from the So-called "Majority" Text.]   

MISSING IN MODERN BIBLES (JACK MOORMAN) [359B] An analysis of the New 
International Version, proving that this popular translation contains 
significant doctrinal differences compared to the Authorized Version. 8.00 

MODERN BIBLES: THE DARK SECRET (JACK MOORMAN) [415B] This excellent 
overview of the Bible version issue is a condensation of Moorman's larger 
works. He first shows the significance of the difference between the New 
International Version and the KJV. He then deals with the Wescott-Hort 
theories, Bible preservation, dynamic equivalency, and the English language 
of the Authorized Version. Highly recommended. $1.50 

MODERN VERSION OMISSIONS OF NEW TESTAMENT SCRIPTURE (SKIP SPENCER) [398B] 
This book contains the New Testament text of the New American Standard 
Version with the thousands of omissions clearly marked in black reversed 
type. Thus it is easy to see exactly how different the new versions are 
when compared with the Authorized Bible. Through this helpful book both the 
quantity and the significance of the differences are plain for all who want 
to see. $5.00

MOST FRIGHTFUL DECEPTION: THE TODAY'S ENGLISH VERSION AND TRANSLATOR ROBERT 
BRATCHER, A (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL031B] A careful look at the Good News for 
Modern Man (Today's English Version)--its nature, worldwide distribution, 
and the apostasy of its chief translator. The Good News Bible is being 
distributed throughout the world by the Bible societies and other 
organizations and is being translated into many languages. It has become 
the most popular text of Scripture in Australia. It is more essential than 
ever that God's people have an understanding of just how corrupt this 
version is. $1.75

MOVING AWAY FROM PRESERVED SCRIPTURE [See Majority Text: Moving Away From 
Preserved Scripture.]

MYTH OF EARLY REVISION (DAVID REAGAN) [WOL186B] This excellent book 
explodes the myth that the King James Version has gone through a series of 
significant revisions. The author proves that the Authorized Version of the 
20th century is the same as that of the 17th century, except for spelling 
and grammar modifications. $1.25

MYTHS ABOUT THE KING JAMES BIBLE (Set of 5 books) (D.W. Cloud) [WOL021B] 
This five-booklet series has been completely rewritten, enlarged, and 
retypeset. It deals with six popular myths about the KJV and the Greek text 
underlying it--Was Erasmus a Humanist? Did the Protestant translators lack 
sufficient manuscript evidence? Are there doctrinal differences between 
texts and translations? Is it true that modern scholarship is wholly 
arrayed against the old Textus Receptus? Has the perfectly inspired Bible 
been only imperfectly preserved? Are the issues too complex for the average 
Christian? If you have purchased the old edition in the past, we will be 
glad to send you the updated edition without charge. $7.50 for the set

NEW AMERICAN STANDARD VERSION (FEA) [120P] $ .20

NEW AMERICAN STANDARD VERSION [See also Evaluating Versions of the New    
Testament, From the NASV to the KJV, and Modern Version Omissions of the 
New Testament Scripture.]

NEW ENGLISH BIBLE (M.L. MOSER) [070B] An expos of the modern translation 
which some have called the "Ecumenical Bible." Fundamental doctrines 
attacked by this translation are detailed in this book. Moser also reveals 
the deep apostasy of the man who was in charge of the translation of the 
New English Bible, the late C.H. Dodd, a leader in the British and Foreign 
Bible Society. $3.50

NEW EYE OPENER (J.J. RAY) [174P] One of the most useful pamphlets on the 
Bible version issue. It shows 200 of the omissions which are in the Greek 
Textus Receptus underlying the KJV, but which are deleted from the 
Westcott-Hort or United Bible Societies Text and those versions which 
follow them. $ .25

NEW KING JAMES VERSION [See Careful Look at the New King James Version, A, 
Is the New King James Bible the Word of God?, and Remarks on the New King 
James Version.]

NEW INTERNATIONAL VERSION [See Bible Doctrines Affected by New Versions, 
Critical Evaluation of the New American Standard Version, Evaluating 
Versions of the New Testament, Missing in Modern Bibles, and Modern Bibles: 
The Dark Secret.]

PARAPHRASING [See Dynamic Equivalency: Death Knell of Pure Scripture, 
Living Bible: Blessing or Curse?, The Dark Secret, Most Frightful 
Deception, Why We Reject This Version, Wycliffe Bible Translators: Whither 
Bound?]

POPULAR MYTHS ABOUT THE KING JAMES BIBLE (Set of 5 books) (D.W. Cloud) [See 
Myths About the King James Bible.]

REMARKS ON THE NEW KING JAMES VERSION (D.K. MADDEN) [WOL172] The NKJV 
claims to be merely a minor revision of the Authorized Version. What is the 
truth about this new version? What changes were made? Are they harmless? 
$ .25

REVISED STANDARD VERSION, THE  (PERRY ROCKWOOD) [WOL025B] The RSV is owned 
by the National Council of Churches in America and is distributed 
throughout the world by the United Bible Societies. Many of the existing 
standard translations of the Bible in languages other than English are from 
the RSV, and the National Council of Churches is presently involved in an 
expensive advertising campaign to make the RSV even more popular. These 
facts become frightening when one reads this amazing little study. It 
documents the apostate condition of the translators and gives a careful 
critique of how the RSV has corrupted hundreds of important Bible passages. 
$1.00

SLIPPING AWAY FROM PRESERVED SCRIPTURE [See Majority Text: Moving Away From 
Preserved Scripture.]

THINKING, THEORIES, AND THEOLOGY OF DRS. WESTCOTT AND HORT (CECIL CARTER)    
[378B] The author is a Canadian and is an "Old timer" in the battle for the 
Bible. This book is an important look at the two men who produced the Greek 
New Testament which stands behind all modern English versions. $2.00

TODAY'S ENGLISH VERSION [See Most Frightful Deception, A.]

TRANSLATIONS OF THE BIBLE (FRANK LOGSDON) [See From the NASV to the KJV.] 

TRIBUTE TO DAVID OTIS FULLER, A (D.W. Cloud) [WOL403B] This tribute to Dr. 
David Otis Fuller looks at the life and work of a man who stood without 
compromise for the preserved Bible in this century. Dr. Fuller edited Which 
Bible, True or False? and Counterfeit or Genuine and established the Which 
Bible Society for the defense of the Traditional Text of Scripture. This 
Tribute contains an overview of Dr. Fuller's life in his own words, 
selected quotations from his letters, and one of his sermons on the Bible. 
$3.00

TRUE OR FALSE? (D.O. FULLER) [134B] This sequel to Dr. Fuller's Which Bible 
is an excellent symposium on the text of the Scriptures, Bible 
translations, textual criticism, and the inspiration of the Scriptures. It 
is an able examination of the Westcott-Hort textual theory and will be 
appreciated by all Bible students. Since this text forms the basis of the 
most modern translations, this book is of the greatest importance. In our 
opinion, the section of True or False entitled "Which Version?" by Philip 
Mauro is the best overview of the Bible text issue in print. $6.95

UNHOLY HANDS ON GOD'S HOLY WORD (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL026B] A shocking study of 
the history, work, and spiritual condition of the United Bible Societies, 
including documentation of their powerful influence throughout the world. 
Should be read by every Christian. This 80-page presentation is carefully 
researched and documented. Put this into the hands of preachers and 
missionaries. The author shows the growing influence of the UBS and 
demonstrates how it is systematically replacing faithful versions of the 
Bible with corruptions. Written by a missionary who has seen firsthand the 
sad and unspiritual havoc wrought among various peoples by corrupted 
versions of the Scriptures produced by the UBS. $5.00

WHY I BELIEVE THE OLD KING JAMES BIBLE (BRUCE LACKEY) [145B] A look at the 
trustworthiness of the King James Bible by the late Bruce Lackey, and 
includes Dr. Lackey's own testimony of salvation and call to the ministry. 
Chapter titles are Conversion and Call to the Ministry, It Proves Itself, 
Inspiration, The Doctrine of Preservation, King James Version Only? Answers 
to Objections, Significant Differences with other Versions, and Revisions 
of the 1611 King James Version. $5.00

WORD OF GOD ON TRIAL (ROBERT BARNETT) [353B] Pastor Barnett has given a 
fine overview of the subject of Bible versions in this interesting book. 
Chapter titles include The problem of God's Word on trial; The past 
position of God's Word on trial; The promises of God which defend His Word 
on trial; and The progressive problems we may face with God's Word on 
trial.  $3.00

WYCLIFFE BIBLE TRANSLATORS: WHITHER BOUND? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL322B] Chapter    
titles of this book are Wycliffe and the Ecumenical Movement, Wycliffe and 
the Charismatic Movement, Wycliffe and New Evangelicalism, Wycliffe and 
Dynamic Equivalency, Wycliffe and the Westcott-Hort Text, and Wycliffe and 
Contextualization. $1.60

CHARISMATIC MOVEMENT

17 RAZONES POR LAS CUALES YO ABANDONE EL MOVIMIENTO DE LAS LENGUAS (ALFRED 
H. POHL) [020B] Spanish edition of Why I Left the Tongues Movement. A 
former leader in a pentecostal denomination in Canada gives the 17 reasons 
why he left the tongues movement. See Why I Left the Tongues Movement in 
this section for comment. $3.95

17 REASONS WHY I LEFT THE TONGUES MOVEMENT (ALFRED POHL) [See Why I Left 
the Tongues Movement]

CHARISMATIC CONFUSION IN INDIANAPOLIS (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL011B] Eyewitness 
report on the North American Congress on the Holy Spirit & World 
Evangelization, held July 1987, in New Orleans, Louisiana, and August 1990, 
in Indianapolis, Indiana. These ecumenical-charismatic congresses were the 
largest held in North America during the last ten years and give conclusive 
evidence of the unscriptural direction of the movement. More than one-half 
of the participants were Roman Catholic. A Catholic mass was held each 
morning of the meetings! This firsthand report is interestingly-written and 
is illustrated with two dozen photographs. It should be read by every 
Christian. $3.00

CHARISMATIC CONFUSION IN INDIANAPOLIS (AUDIO CASSETTE) (D.W. Cloud) [342C] 
Eyewitness report on the North American Congress on the Holy Spirit & World 
Evangelization, held July 1987, in New Orleans, Louisiana, and August 1990, 
in Indianapolis, Indiana. See previous title for further description. $2.50

HOLINESS: THE FALSE & THE TRUE (HARRY IRONSIDE) [038B] Harry Ironside's 
personal testimony about seeking the "second blessing" or "entire 
sanctification" while working with the Salvation Army. He repeatedly tried 
and failed to attain a perfect spiritual plateau, and ended up in a 
hospital with emotional burnout. There Ironside learned the true way of 
Christian holiness through friends and Bible literature and was set free 
from the erroneous teachings on holiness which had almost ruined him. The 
book is thus a practical and interesting study on holiness and 
sanctification, both false and true, and is a very, very important book for 
the Christian life and for this particular hour. The things Ironside warns 
about are things taught commonly in the modern pentecostal-charismatic 
movement. $5.00

HOW TO PRAY FOR THE SICK (AUDIO CASSETTE) (BRUCE LACKEY) [157C] Sound 
instruction from the Word of God about praying for the sick. $4.00

IS HEALING IN THE ATONEMENT? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL333B] This 50-page booklet 
contains a thorough study on this important subject. Close attention is 
given to some of the most famous "healers": Oral Roberts, John Wimber, 
Charles and Frances Hunter, Kathryn Kuhlman, and William Branham. The 
author believes in divine healing, but rejects charismatic error. $3.00   

NEW PROPHETS, THE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL331B] A look at the charismatic prophets 
who claim to be following in the footsteps of Isaiah and Jeremiah. 
Particular attention is given to those prophets which are a part of John 
Wimber's Vineyard movement. $1.75

SPIRIT OF PENTECOSTAL-CHARISMATIC UNITY (WILSON EWIN) [135B] A powerful 
look at the Roman Catholic influence within and behind the charismatic 
movement. Lavishly illustrated. Very important! $1.25

STRANGE THINGS IN NEW ORLEANS (D.W. CLOUD) [See Charismatic Confusion in 
Indianapolis.]

WHY I LEFT THE TONGUES MOVEMENT (A.H. POHL) [WOL078B] A former leader in a 
pentecostal denomination in Canada gives the seventeen reasons why he left 
the tongues movement. Written with a spirit of concern and patience, yet 
with firmness in doctrinal position, Brother Pohl's 119-page book offers a 
wealth of helpful teaching and example on this important theme. Final 
chapters in this third printing include a necessary warning about the 
increasing role charismatics are playing in the unscriptural ecumenical 
movement. Highly recommended. Also available in Spanish. See 17 Razones por 
las Cuales. $4.50

WILLIAM BRANHAM: PROPHET OR PROFITEER (DAVID CLOUD AND ALFRED POHL) 
[WOL332B] This booklet also contains a biography of Branham's life and an 
examination of the supernatural power which worked in his life. The book 
also contains an eyewitness report of a Branham healing meeting in which 
Pohl participated in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. At that time, Pohl was a 
leader in a pentecostal denomination and the duplicity which he witnessed 
led to his departure from pentecostalism. $1.75

WILLIAM BRANHAM: PROPHET OR PROFITEER (AUDIO CASSETTE) (A.H. POHL) [348C] 
This message contains the interview which is described in the booklet 
above. $2.50

CHILDREN

CARRYING LIGHT IN DARKNESS (flashcards) [WOL004B] Biography of a blind 
Nepali evangelist who carries the Gospel across the most rugged mountains 
in the world, the mighty Himalayas. Has twenty-one 8 1/2 X 11 in 
illustrations for use with child evangelism, Sunday Schools, Vacation Bible 
Schools, etc. $4.00

MEENA OF NEPAL (BOOKLET) (LINDA CLOUD) [WOL017B] The story of a typical 
Nepali village girl, growing up without the Gospel. A fully illustrated 
challenge for children or adults by an independent Baptist missionary nurse 
who works in the Himalayas.  $  .75

MEENA OF NEPAL (FLASHCARDS) (LINDA CLOUD) [WOL018B] Same as above but with 
nineteen 8 1/2 X 11 inch illustrations for use with child evangelism, 
Sunday Schools, Vacation Bible Schools, etc. $4.00

CHRISTIAN STANDARDS   

The cry of legalism goes up whenever the man of God tries to set forth 
biblical guidelines for separated Christian living and dress, but the cry 
is unjustified. It is not legalism to seek to obey the Word of God! God has 
given standards for modesty and propriety in every area of life. It is not 
legalism or Phariseeism to take God's Word seriously in these areas. 
Rather, it is rebellion to ignore what God has said. While the world grows 
increasingly vile, while the wall of distinction between man and woman 
grows increasingly blurred, it is crucial that God's people show forth a 
plain standard of holiness. The Bible says, "Love not the world, neither 
the things that are in the world" (1 Jn. 2:15-17).

ALCOHOL [See Bible Wines and the Laws of Fermentation, Double Curse of 
Booze, Strong Drink, and What the Bible Says About Drinking Wine.]

BIBLE GUIDELINES ABOUT CLOTHING (BRUCE LACKEY) [WOL443B] Clear, sympathetic 
instruction. Dr. Lackey suggests asking five questions about one's 
clothing: (1) Is it worn by the opposite sex? (2) What does it make others 
think of me? (3) Predominately, what kind of people dress that way? (4) 
Must I use the arguments of the world to justify it? (5) Will it cause 
others to stumble? $1.00

BOBBED HAIR, BOSSY WIVES, AND WOMEN PREACHERS (JOHN R. RICE) [405B] This 
title deals with authority and the God-ordained role of the woman. John 
Rice deals with this touchy subject in his characteristically kind, but 
firm, way. $1.95

CIGARETTES [See Tobacco, How to Quit Smoking.]

DRUNKENNESS [See Bible Wines and the Laws of Fermentation, Double Curse of 
Booze, Strong Drink, and What the Bible Says About Drinking Wine.]

HOW TO QUIT SMOKING (HUGH PYLE) [300B] This booklet has helped many to 
conquer the evil weed, and contains The Famous Fight, the Fiery Facts, the 
Fortifying Faith, and the Fabulous Formula. These are the fourfold steps to 
victory over tobacco. $ .50

LIQUOR [See Bible Wines and the Laws of Fermentation, Double Curse of 
Booze, Strong Drink, and What the Bible Says About Drinking Wine.]

SCHIZOPHRENIC WOMEN (PATTI WILLIAMS) [104P] Patti Williams is a godly, 
feminine Christian lady who has reared many children in the way of the Lord 
through the ministry of the Hephzibah House, a home for needy children. 
Mrs. Williams wore pants most of her life until she understood the 
importance and reasons for modest apparel, and in this pamphlet she gives 
her personal testimony in regard to pants and women's dress. $ .20

SHOULD CHRISTIANS DANCE? (TIM SPITSBERGEN) [WOL355B] Excellent study on 
what the Bible says about dancing and the unholy power it wields in the 
lives of young people. $1.25

SMOKING [See Tobacco, How to Quit Smoking.]
   
TOBACCO (JOHN R. RICE WITH D.H. KRESS, M.D.) [362B] This booklet not only 
gives the reasons why a Christian should quit smoking, but contains sound 
medical advice which can help one quit. $ .50

WHAT THE BIBLE SAYS ABOUT DRINKING WINE (BOOK) (BRUCE LACKEY) [146P] Did 
Jesus make alcoholic wine? Does the Bible require "teetotalism"? This 
excellent booklet gives a clear answer. $1.00

WHAT THE BIBLE SAYS ABOUT DRINKING WINE (AUDIO CASSETTE) (BRUCE LACKEY) 
[151C] See previous title for description. $2.50

CHURCH

ATTEND THE SAME LOCAL CHURCH FAITHFULLY (BRUCE LACKEY) [149P] This ten-page 
pamphlet contains eleven Bible reasons for faithful church attendance and 
involvement. $ .20

BAPTISM: THE FACTS ARE CLEAR (MICHAEL DIXON) [461B] A 30-page study which 
deals with the meaning, method, member, motive, and untruths about baptism. 
$2.00

BAPTIST DEACON, THE (GARY PRISK/ROBERT SARGENT) [412B] A helpful guide for 
the selection and use of deacons. This handbook is used in the Bible 
Baptist Church of Oak Harbor, Washington, the home of Way of Life 
Literature. The church is divided into four sections and the deacons 
minister to the various sections under the pastor's watchcare. $3.00

DEACONS: SERVANTS OR RULERS (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL008B] Exactly what does the 
Bible say about the deacon's role in the local church? Does he have 
authority with or even over the pastor? This book has been used in many 
churches. $1.50

DIVORCED PASTOR, THE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL463B] A look at pastoral 
qualifications in light of the divorce question. The author contends that a 
divorced man might be qualified to preach but not to pastor. The reason is 
the nature of the pastorate and the testimony of the church. $ .50

GRACE AND AUTHORITY IN THE LOCAL CHURCH (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL365B] This study 
deals with four crucial matters in relation to one's membership in the 
local church. (1) We must distinguish between the important and the less 
important in church life, and learn to accept some things with which we do 
not agree. (2) The Bible teaches freedom of conscience in matters not 
addressed by Scripture. (3) Christians are to submit to their church 
leaders. (4) We must always be gracious in our judgments. $3.00

HOW TO KILL A CHURCH (DAVIS HUCKABEE) [096P] Huckabee considers five ways 
that people weaken and destroy churches: By staying away from it, By 
Starving It, By Striving in It, By Being Stubborn, and By Being Selfish. 
$ .20

I LOVE THE CHURCH/THE BELIEVER AND HIS BIBLE (AUDIO CASSETTE) (BRUCE 
LACKEY) [374C] $2.50
   
INFANT BAPTISM: HISTORY & ITS HARM (PETTINGILL) [099P] $ .20

JOIN A CHURCH (BRUCE LACKEY) [148P] This timely pamphlet contains 15 Bible 
reasons why a Christian should join a Bible-believing church. $ .20

NEW TESTAMENT CHURCH DISCIPLINE (JAMES CRUMPTON) [WOL019B] Seven important 
chapters by a mature and godly pastor--Constructive Church Discipline, 
Personal Church Discipline, Corrective Church Discipline, Punitive Church 
Discipline, Local Church Discipline, Neglected Church Discipline, and Foot 
Washing: Church Ordinance or Church Discipline? $3.00
@TITLE = OTHER SIDE OF SEPARATION, THE (D.W. CLOUD) [See Grace and 
Authority in the Local Church.]

TEN BIBLE REASONS FOR FAITHFUL CHURCH ATTENDANCE (ROBERT SARGENT) [414P] An 
excellent pamphlet for grounding converts in the importance of the local 
church. $ .15

WHY I PRAISE GOD FOR FUNDAMENTAL BAPTIST CHURCHES (AUDIO CASSETTE) (D.W. 
CLOUD) [449C] The preacher gives five reasons why he has aligned himself 
for twenty years with fundamental Baptist churches: (1) Belief in a perfect 
Bible, (2) independence of the local church, (3) concern for the whole 
counsel of God, (4) zeal for the truth, (5) zeal for separated Christian 
living. $2.50

WOMEN PREACHERS (D.W. CLOUD (WOL462B] A look at the Biblical injunction 
against women preachers and pastors. $1.00

EVANGELISM, DISCIPLESHIP, AND MISSIONS 

ABCS OF CHRISTIAN GROWTH (ROBERT SARGENT) [WOL237B] This 180-page study is 
packed with helpful things. Developed while the author pastored a church 
and directed a Bible college in Western Australia, ABCs covers important 
Christian doctrines, duties, and relationships in an A to Z approach: from 
Assurance to Zion! The uses for ABCs are many: It offers great material for 
sermon outlines, Bible studies, Sunday School classes, jail or other 
ministries, even correspondence courses. It is simple enough for the new 
convert, but meaty enough for the older Christian. $10.50 each single 
copy/$7.50 each 5 or more copies

AFTER SALVATION--WHAT SHOULD I DO? (CHARLES MAINOUS) [457B] A smaller 
series of discipleship studies which covers ten subjects: Assurance of 
salvation, Prayer, Baptism, Church membership, Tithes, Obedience, Victory 
over the devil, Separation, Soul-winning, and Happiness Forever. $1.50

DEFECTIVE EVANGELISM (James Stewart) [WOL402B] This sermon on evangelism by 
the late British Evangelist James Stewart deals with shallow evangelism: 
the lack of repentance in much of the evangelistic preaching and soul-
winning activity of our day. It was first preached in the 1940s but is 
still timely. $1.75

DOES SALVATION MAKE A DIFFERENCE? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL009B] What about a 
person who professes to be saved, but who cares nothing for the things of 
God? Is he saved? A look at the importance of preaching repentance. $1.50   

EASY PRAYERISM OR BIBLE EVANGELISM (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL394B] A timely warning 
about the modern evangelistic emphasis upon a sinner's prayer rather than 
that which is emphasized in the Bible and in old-time evangelism: 
conviction, repentance, and true conversion. Acts 17 is used as the basis 
for this message, and Paul's message, method, and results are contrasted 
with what the author calls "easy prayerism." $1.50

EASY PRAYERISM OR BIBLE EVANGELISM (AUDIO CASSETTE) (D.W. CLOUD) [447C] See 
previous title for description. This message was preached at the O Timothy 
Bible conference, Bethel Baptist Church, London, Ontario, September 1992. 
$2.50

GOSPEL OF JOHN: SPECIAL EVANGELISM EDITION [047B] John is the only book of 
the Bible which specifically says it was written "that ye might believe 
that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the God; and that believing ye might 
have life through his name." This particular little pocket-sized Gospel is 
not only attractively printed with a glossy, full-color cover, but contains 
many other important materials, including the plan of salvation, and 
selections from Romans, 1 Corinthians, and Hebrews, and studies for new 
Christians. $ .25

GROWING IN GRACE (ED NELSON) [176B] These 13 lessons for new Christians and 
church members are excellent and cover the most important first doctrines 
including Assurance of Salvation, Baptism, The Church and Membership, The 
Word of God, Prayer, Witnessing, Stewardship, and Facing Problems and 
Dangers. Each lesson has a set of questions and a worksheet. The booklet is 
a handy 5 1/4 X 8 1/2 inches and contains 119 pages. $8.95

HOLLYWOOD EVANGELISM (James Stewart) [WOL401B] This sermon on evangelism by 
the late British Evangelist James Stewart deals with worldly, glamorized 
evangelism. It was first preached in the 1940s but is still timely. $1.50

HOW TO PRAY FOR SALVATION (BRUCE LACKEY) [WOL399B] An examination of the 
publican's prayer in Luke 18. Dr. Lackey looks at the publican's humility, 
his burden over sin, his consciousness of God, and his faith. $ .50

HOW TO WIN YOUR UNSAVED HUSBAND (ELIZABETH HANDFORD) [301B] From 1 Peter 3, 
plus other Scriptures, the author gives careful instruction and hope to 
Christian women who face this problem.  $ .50

POT-POURRI EVANGELISM (James Stewart) [WOL400B] This sermon on evangelism 
by the late British Evangelist James Stewart deals with ecumenical 
evangelism. It was first preached in the 1940s when Evangelicals first 
began yoking together with Modernists in evangelistic crusades. $1.00

REPENTANCE IS MORE THAN A CHANGE OF MIND (BRUCE LACKEY) [396B] The author 
was a soul winning pastor and a wonderfully-gifted Bible teacher. In this 
book he explains what Bible repentance truly is, as well as what it is not. 
Included is a chapter entitled "Repentance is absolutely required." $2.95

REPENTANCE [See Repentance Is More Than A Change of Mind, Defective 
Evangelism, and Easy Prayerism or Bible Evangelism, and Does Salvation Make    
A Difference?]

SOUL WINNER, THE (C.H. SPURGEON) [296B] A book on personal evangelism by 
the "Prince of Preachers." Many say it is the best book of its kind in 
print. $10.95

SOUL WINNER'S FIRE, THE (JOHN R. RICE) [281B] Eight messages to fire the 
hearts of God's people and send them out with tears and holy passion to win 
the lost. $2.50

FAMILY AND YOUTH

CORRECTION AND SALVATION OF CHILDREN (RONALD WILLIAMS) [339B] This 
exposition of Prov. 23:13-14 explains the absolute necessity of correcting 
children, and shows the Bible way to do so. For twenty years Pastor 
Williams has been the Director of the Hephzibah House for wayward youth in 
Winona Lake, Indiana. $1.00

FAMILY PLANNING AND GOD'S WORD (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL183B] A timely study on the 
subject of family planning, including what the Bible teaches about 
children, birth control methods Christians should not use, and counsel 
about the freedom of individual conscience. Many pictures and 
illustrations. $3.00

GOD'S PROMISE ABOUT CHILDREN (BRUCE LACKEY) [WOL335B] An encouraging look 
at what the Bible does and does not promise about child training. $1.00

GROWING UP GOD'S WAY (JOHN STORMER) [278B] An excellent guide for getting 
children ready for school and life from birth on, Growing up God's Way is 
not just another book on the home, but is packed with helpful, challenging 
information. The book is illustrated with John Stormer's experience as a 
husband and father and his work with hundreds of families during fifteen 
years as a pastor and Christian school superintendent. Very practical and 
helpful. $3.95

PROSPEROUS FAMILY, A (BRUCE LACKEY) (six tapes in an album) [340C] Some of 
the best preaching we have heard on the family. Refreshingly, Dr. Lackey 
does not preach psychology; he preaches the Bible. Message titles are The 
Husband, The Wife, Parents, Mother, God's promise about children, The 
discipline of children, The rod of Correction, How to live a long and happy 
life. $15.00

TAMING OF THE TODDLER (HUGH PYLE) [275B] Shows how not to have a rebellious 
tot. This book might well save your child from the penitentiary, for 
successful child training must begin at a very early age. $ 1.00

GENERAL (DOCTRINE, CHRISTIAN LIFE, BIBLE STUDY)

1 PETER (BRUCE LACKEY) [032B] A 112-page commentary and study guide on the 
first epistle of Peter, using the same format as the book on Jude by this 
same author. See comment on Jude. $4.00

A MERRY HEART: VOLUME 1 (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL379B] A collection of wholesome    
jokes and humerous stories divided into major topics, such as old age, 
teenagers, and the military. Good for a lot of smiles and chuckles, even 
some hearty belly laughs. This book is all fun. Contains one of the best 
collections of Texas jokes in print! $3.00

A MERRY HEART: VOLUME 2 (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL441B] The second volume of 
wholesome jokes and humerous stories divided into major topics. $3.00

AWFUL SUBJECT OF HELL/ WONDERFUL SUBJECT OF HEAVEN (AUDIO CASSETTE) (JAMES 
CRUMPTON) [372C] $2.50

BLIND EYE AND DEAF EAR (C.H. SPURGEON) [WOL336B] A marvelous sermon about 
the importance of not paying attention to everything that one hears and 
sees. This is one of the lectures Spurgeon preached to the students of his 
Preacher's College. $1.50

CHRIST'S JUDGMENT SEAT (BOOK) (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL005B] What will it be like 
for the Christian to stand before the Savior as He examines one's life? A 
thorough, biblical study of the judgment every child of God will face at 
the close of his earthly life. Also deals with the grace of Christ's 
judgment seat. A challenging, as well as an encouraging, study. $2.00

CHRIST'S JUDGMENT SEAT (AUDIO CASSETTE) (D.W. CLOUD) [448C] Same as above 
but on audio cassette. $2.50

FASTING (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL028B] What the Bible does and does not say about 
this important and often-neglected subject. It covers: Warnings about 
fasting; When should we fast? Why is fasting important? Who should fast? 
How long is a biblical fast? What is a Biblical Fast? Does it matter if we 
fast? $1.25

HEAVEN'S MANSIONS (AUDIO CASSETTE) (J.B. BUFFINGTON) [395C] A thrilling 
message on the Christian's eternal home. $2.50

HEAVEN [See also Awful Subject of Hell/Wonderful Subject of Heaven.] 

HELL [See also Awful Subject of Hell/Wonderful Subject of Heaven.] 

JUDE (BRUCE LACKEY) [051B] A 58-page commentary and study guide on the 
Epistle of Jude, useful for Bible class or private study. Every verse is 
expounded; the book contains blanks which may be filled in by reading 
parallel Scriptures. Preachers and teachers should find the outlines 
helpful. $1.50

JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST [See Christ's Judgment Seat.]

LET NOT YOUR HEART BE TROUBLED (AUDIO CASSETTE) (J.B. BUFFINGTON) [381C] 
Heartwarming, encouraging preaching on John 14:1-6. $2.50

PRAYER [See Sin We So Easily Overlook, The.]

SIN WE SO EASILY OVERLOOK, THE (AUDIO CASSETTE) (JAMES CRUMPTON) [397C] 
This is one of the most important and blessed messages on prayer we have    
ever heard. $2.50

TEN WAYS TO STUDY YOUR BIBLE (BRUCE LACKEY) [063B] Helpful material which 
can be used for Bible classes in a church, home or school, for sermon 
outlines, for private study, etc. The ten ways are How to Study a Book; How 
to Study a Chapter; How to Study Devotionally; How to Study by Meditation; 
How to Study a Parable; How to Study People; How to Study for Sermons; How 
to Study a Topic; How to Study a Type; How to Study a Word. $3.00

WHY ALL THE SUFFERING? (GREG CURTIS) [077B] A 114-page study on the 
important subject of suffering in the Christian life. Pastor Curtis deals 
compassionately and understandingly with The Puzzle of Pain; The Gift of 
Pain; Paul's Experience with Pain; Why Pain? The Laws of Pain; Divine 
Healing and Pain; Attitude toward Pain; Practical Guidelines for Helping 
Those in Pain. $2.50

WHY GOD SENDS AFFLICTION (AUDIO CASSETTE) (BRUCE LACKEY) [153C] $2.50

ISSUES OF OUR DAY (APOLOGETICS, SEPARATION, SOCIAL ISSUES)

ASSIMILATION OF EVANGELIST BILLY GRAHAM INTO THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 
(WILSON EWIN) [442B] This new book traces Billy Graham's increasingly cozy 
relationship with Romanism. Included are 28 pages of full-sized glossy 
photographs of Catholic ritual and the key Roman leaders who have 
influenced Graham. $3.25

AXIOMS OF SEPARATION (JOHN ASHBROOK) [313B] A practical and detailed look 
at ecclesiastical separation. The author does not fear to name names. Some 
excerpts from the book will give you a feel for the contents: "Trying to 
take a stand, while remaining all positive, is the halfway house between 
fundamentalism and new evangelicalism. It always leads to the weaker 
position, not the stronger one." "You cannot preserve a position without 
crusading for it." "Thousands of churches have fallen to new evangelicalism 
while trying to be silent fundamentalists." "In any fellowship of 
fundamental men there will be differences of opinion. Separation does not 
standardize all decisions." "There has never been a time in this 
dispensation of grace when the enemies of the Gospel have so actively 
sought the support of the Lord's people." "Every fundamentalist gathering I 
attend has less protest and forthrightness than the one before." $2.50

AD 2000 ECUMENICAL EVANGELISM (FEA) [196P] An important look at the 
worldwide push for evangelism, which is being used as a ruse by ecumenists 
to promote their dangerous and unscriptural program. Considers the plan for 
World Evangelization 2000, its leaders, and the meeting held in Singapore 
in January, 1989--The Consultation on World Evangelization by AD 2000. 
$ .30

AMSTERDAM '83: EYEWITNESS REPORT (FEA) [034B] Eyewitness Report of Graham's 
Meeting for Itinerant Evangelists, held in 1983. The facts contained in 
this report leave no doubt as to the increasingly dangerous direction of 
the new-evangelical movement of which Graham, sadly, is a key leader. $1.00

AVOIDING THE SNARE OF SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISM (D.W. CLOUD) [035B] Called the    
best on the subject by the editor of The Baptist Challenge, this 147-page 
book is diligently researched from primary sources--official publications 
of the Seventh-day Adventist organization. The author proves conclusively 
that the SDA hold a false gospel and should be identified and avoided as a 
dangerous, unscriptural group. The four major divisions of the book are SDA 
Origin and History Prove They Are Heretical, SDA Doctrines Prove They Are 
Heretical, What Should be the Christian's Relationship with False Groups? 
Why Some Consider Seventh-day Adventism Evangelical. SDA doctrines 
considered are Sabbath-keeping Required for New Testament Believers? Soul-
sleep, Annihilation of the Wicked, Ellen White as a Prophetess, 
Investigative Judgment, Misuse of the Mosaic Law. $5.95

BIBLICAL SEPARATION: OPTION, RESPONSIBILITY OR HERESY? (D.W. CLOUD) 
[WOL002B] This 73-page book contains a thorough study of what the Bible 
does and does not say about separation. "There is an evil greater than 
disunity, and that is unity in error." The chapter titles are The Kinds of 
Separation, The Practice of Separation, Wrong Separations, The Why of 
Separation, and Common Excuses Against Separation. $3.75

CALVINISM [See Election and Free Will and For the Lilly of the Valley and 
Against TULIP Theology.]

CHARLES SPURGEON AND THE BATTLE FOR THE TRUTH (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL356B] This 
book examines three periods of battle in the life of C.H. Spurgeon--his 
battle against dead evangelicalism, his battle against infant baptism, and 
his battle against liberalism in the Baptist Union. Many quotes are given 
from his sermons during these periods. $1.75

CHRISTIAN AND WAR, THE (R.L. MOYER) [215B] Is human government ordained of 
God? Does God ever take life? Is all killing murder? Should nations ever 
declare war? Shall a Christian obey human governments? Shall a Christian go 
to war? It is crucial for each Christian to have a firm grasp on what the 
Bible teaches about this. $ .50

CHRISTIAN DITTOHEADS (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL464B] The phenomenon of Rush Limbaugh 
and a warning about his influence upon Christians. $ .50

CREMATION, DIVORCE, AND OTHER MATTERS (BRUCE LACKEY) [377B] Five sermons 
which deal with the practical matters of cremation, divorce and remarriage, 
gambling, child training, and affliction. $3.00

CREMATION: WHAT DOES GOD THINK? (BOOK) (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL007B] With 
cremation becoming increasingly popular in North America as a method of 
disposing of the bodies of the deceased, it is important that Christians 
know what the Bible says on this subject. This book is written by a 
missionary who has lived many years in South Asia in the midst of the 
heathen culture in which cremation has its origin. This is a new, enlarged 
edition. $1.00

CUP OF THE LORD OR THE CUP OF DEVILS? EYEWITNESS REPORT OF THE 6TH GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY OF THE WORLD COUNCIL OF CHURCHES (M.H. REYNOLDS) [041B] Pastor M. 
H. Reynolds has followed the ecumenical movement for decades and is well 
prepared to give an eyewitness report of the last general assembly of the    
World Council of Churches, the Sixth Assembly in Vancouver, British 
Columbia, 1983. Fundamental Christians are often unaware of the far-
reaching influence of the WCC--an ecumenical body of more than 300 
denominations and groups, representing approximately 500 million professing 
Christians. Established in 1948, the tenacles of this apostate monster now 
reach into practically every nation on earth. View the WCC from the inside 
via Pastor Reynold's searching report. Observe the heathen sacrificial 
fires; hear the major speeches delivered by leaders in non-Christian 
religions; observe the growing communist influence within apostate 
Christendom; note the shady attempts of the WCC leaders to hide their 
Bible-denying liberalism under a cloak of evangelical terminology and a 
form of worship and "spirituality." This report also contains some amazing 
conciliatory statements made by some evangelical leaders who are urging 
God's people to associate with this ecumenical monster. $3.00

DATE SETTING AND SIGN LOOKING (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL450B] Using Jack Van Impe's 
ministry as an illustration, the author warns about speculative prophecy. 
$ .50

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE UNPARDONABLE SIN, BLASPHEMY OF THE HOLY GHOST, AND 
THE SIN UNTO DEATH (JAMES CRUMPTON) [466B] A discerning, helpful look at 
Matthew 12:32 and 1 John 5:17. $1.00

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE UNPARDONABLE SIN, BLASPHEMY OF THE HOLY GHOST, AND 
THE SIN UNTO DEATH (AUDIO CASSETTE) (JAMES CRUMPTON) [373C] See above for 
description. $2.50

DIVORCE & REMARRIAGE (AUDIO CASSETTE) (BRUCE LACKEY) [344C] $2.50

DO ANIMALS HAVE RIGHTS? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL363B] A look at the animal rights 
movement and the Bible's teaching about animals? Do animals have souls? How 
are they to be treated? Is it wrong to slaughter animals for meat, or to 
hunt them for sport? $1.50

ECUMENICAL EXCUSES FOR UNEQUAL YOKES (JOHN R. RICE) [302P] A clear message 
from the Bible in answer to the shameful excuses for compromising with 
modernism and error for the sake of evangelism, etc. $ .50

ELECTION AND FREE WILL (AUDIO CASSETTE) (PAUL FREEMAN) [386C] Evangelist 
Freeman's sermon on the election of God and the free will of man is a sound 
Bible exposition of a complex subject. Freeman has studied the matter 
thoroughly; he has even read Calvin's Institutes through twice. He has also 
seen the destructive power of hyper-Calvinism in fundamental circles. $2.50

EVANGELICAL CATHOLICS (D.W. Cloud) [WOL404B] This study looks at the 
phenomenon of so-called evangelical Catholicism. This is particularly a 
phenomenon among Charismatic Catholics. The book Evangelical Catholics by 
Keith Fournier (foreworded by Chuck Colson) is reviewed and refuted from 
Scripture. $1.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 1--BILLY GRAHAM (D.W. Cloud) [WOL406B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 1 deals with Billy Graham from 1950 to present. Thoroughly and    
carefully documented. $2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 2--KEY EVANGELICALS (D.W. Cloud) [WOL407B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 2 deals with popular evangelical leaders and organizations, 
including Campus Crusade, Christian Research Institute, James Dobson, Chuck 
Colson, Jerry Falwell, Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, D. James 
Kennedy, J.I. Packer, Luis Palau, John R. Stott, and Youth for Christ. 
$2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 3--THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (D.W. Cloud) 
[WOL412B] These volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical 
world's journey to Rome. Volume 3 deals with the Southern Baptist 
Convention. $2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 4--THE CHARISMATICS (D.W. Cloud) [WOL413B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 4 deals with the Charismatic Movement. $2.50

FOR THE LILLY OF THE VALLEY AND AGAINST TULIP (JAMES CRUMPTON) [WOL465B] A 
look at TULIP theology from a biblical perspective. James Crumpton is 
pastor of the Westside Baptist Church of Natchez, Mississippi, and head of 
the Maranatha Baptist Mission. His approach to TULIP theology is gracious, 
yet firm and scriptural. $1.50

FOR THE LILLY OF THE VALLEY AND AGAINST TULIP THEOLOGY (AUDIO CASSETTE) 
(JAMES CRUMPTON) [387C] See previous title for description.  $2.50

FUNDAMENTALISM, EVANGELICALISM, AND ECUMENISM (AUDIO CASSETTE) (M.H. 
REYNOLDS) [350C] Traces the history and decline of Evangelicalism from the 
days of the Fundamentalist- Modernist controversies. $2.50

GRAHAM, BILLY [See Flirting With Rome: Volume 1, Evangelism: The Trojan 
Horse of the 1990s, New Neutralism II, and Assimilation of Evangelist Billy 
Graham into the Catholic Church.]

HIDING IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING (WILLIAM STANDRIDGE) [298B] Clear insight into 
Liberation Theology which is presently having such a tremendous impact in 
third-world countries. Too often the term liberation theology appears in a 
technical sense which leaves the average Christian confused as to the 
meaning of the concept. Mr. Standridge uncovers the principles upon which 
Liberation Theology is based and unfolds these so every Bible- believing 
Christian can understand and recognize this false teaching. As a missionary 
to Italy for more than 35 years, Standridge is well qualified to write this 
treatise. $2.00

I AM FOR THE LILLY OF THE VALLEY, BUT I AM AGAINST TULIP THEOLOGY See For 
the Iilly of the Valley and Against TULIP Theology.

IS IT RIGHT TO JUDGE? (FRANKLIN HULING) [100P] According to popular 
thinking, it is not right to warn about false doctrine. This is called 
judging. Huling shows that this is a perversion of the Bible warnings 
against judging others. $ .20   

JUDGE NOT (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL456B] A message on one of the most abused and 
misused passages of Scripture: Matthew 7:1--"Judge not that ye be not 
judged." This sermon shows that there is a difference between wrong judging 
and correct judging. The Bible admonishes Christians to exercise 
Discernment, Discipline, Distinctness, and Division. These are forms of 
judgment, and Christ is not forbiding such things in Matthew 7. $1.50 

JUDGE NOT (AUDIO CASSETTE) (D.W. CLOUD) [446C] Same as previous title, but 
on audio cassette. $2.50

LEGALIZED GAMBLING (J.B. BUFFINGTON) [053B] A thoroughly documented and 
biblical sermon on the dangers of and sin of legalized gambling--a sin 
which is literally sweeping North America. $ .50

LIBERATION THEOLOGY [See Hiding In Sheep's Clothing, Cup of the Lord or the 
Cup of Devils?]

MAJOR PROBLEMS WITH MORMANISM (J. & S. TANNER) [341B] Thirty years of 
research into Mormanism by two ex-Mormons. This 256-page book covers the 
most important areas. $6.95

MASONIC REPORT: NEW REVISED PASTOR'S EDITION (C.F. McQuaig and James D. 
Shaw) [087B] McQuaig and Shaw were high-level Masons before their 
conversion, and this study contains 185 revealing and probing questions 
about the institution of Freemasonry. This new edition also contains 
excerpts from Satan's Doorway to America by Ed Decker. $6.95

MOM AND DAD SLEEP WHILE THE CHILDREN ROCK IN SATAN'S CRADLE [See Rocking in 
Satan's Cradle.]

MORMONISM [See Major Problems of Mormonism.]

NEW EVANGELICALISM [See Evangelicalism: The New Neutralism by William 
Ashbrook, Flirting With Rome: Volume 1-4, Evangelism: the Trojan Horse of 
the 1990s by Wilson Ewin, Axioms of Separation and New Neutralism II by 
John Ashbrook, Biblical Separation: Option, Responsibility or Heresy? by 
D.W. Cloud, and Fundamentalism, Evangelicalism, and Ecumenism by M.H. 
Reynolds]

NEW NEUTRALISM II: EXPOSING THE GREY OF COMPROMISE (JOHN ASHBROOK) [411B] 
This 1992 book is a sequel to one first published in 1958 (and frequently 
revised since) by the author's father, William Ashbrook, titled 
Evangelicalism: The New Neutralism. Both books contain a wealth of 
information about the phenomenon of new-evangelicalism, and we feel that 
New Neutralism II is one of the very best books ever written on this 
subject. Ashbrook gives a clear definition of new-evangelicalism and traces 
its historical influence. In particular he deals with such institutions and 
men as Harold Ockenga, Billy Graham, Fuller Seminary, the NAE, Campus 
Crusade, Moody Bible Institute, BIOLA college, John Stott, John MacArthur, 
Luis Palau, E.V. Hill, Charles Colson, Charles Stanely, Charles Swindoll, 
Bill Hybels, Bill Gothard, Warren Wiersbe, and Jerry Falwell. The book also 
contains a helpful index. $4.00   

PICTORIAL REPRESENTATIONS OF JESUS CHRIST (D.K. MADDEN) [WOL192T] Should we 
use pictures of Jesus Christ in church ministry, such as in Sunday Schools? 
What did Jesus look like? Did he have long hair? What does the Bible say 
about these things? A thought-provoking and important study, tracing the 
history of pictures and icons in the Christian church, and pointing us away 
from the practices of apostate Christianity to the Bible's teaching on the 
subject. $ .20

S.B.C. HOUSE ON THE SAND? (DAVID O. BEALE) [416B] How conservative is the 
Southern Baptist Convention? How powerful is the modernist influence within 
the SBC? Is conservatism gaining strength? The author recounts the history 
of the Convention and surveys all of the seminaries and major agencies to 
find out what SBC leaders really believe. He lets the officials and 
professors speak for themselves. $5.95

SEPARATION APPLIED (DENNIS COSTELLA) [105P] Brother Costella does a great 
job dealing with the often-maligned Bible doctrine of ecclesiastical 
separation, and applying that doctrine to various practical situations. 
$ .20

SEPARATION - BIBLICAL [See also Biblical Separation: Option, 
Responsibility, or Heresy by D.W. Cloud, Axioms of Separation by John 
Ashbrook, Separation Applied by Dennis Costella, and Charles Spurgeon and 
the Battle for the Truth.]

SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISM RENOUNCED (D.M. CANRIGHT) [WOL388B] Canright, who 
died in May 1919, was a leader in the Seventh-day Adventist movement for 28 
years, from age 19 to age 47. He joined Adventism only 14 years after it 
started in 1844 and knew its leaders, people, and doctrines intimately. In 
fact, together with James White and "Prophetess" Ellen G. White, Canright 
was one of the top elders in early Adventism. After leaving Adventism in 
1884, Canright joined a Baptist church in Michigan and later became a 
prosperous Baptist pastor. $4.50

SEVENTH-DAY ADVENTISM [See also Avoiding the Snare of Seventh-day 
Adventism.]

SPURGEON AND THE BATTLE FOR TRUTH [See C.H. Spurgeon and the Battle for 
Truth.]

TRUTH ABOUT THE "CHURCH OF CHRIST," THE (HUGH PYLE) [280B] Don't be 
deceived by those who make salvation a matter of baptism or good works and 
miss the point of grace alone through faith. Also known as the Christian 
Church and the Campbellites, the Churches of Christ are one of the most 
deceptive and dangerous of the groups which teach a perverted gospel. $1.95

WHY SHOULD A BORN AGAIN BELIEVER LEAVE A LIBERAL CHURCH? (JAMES GENT) 
[190P] James Gent gives Bible counsel on the urgent question of whether or 
not a Christian should leave a church which is not following the Word of 
God. $ .20

WORLD COUNCIL OF CHURCHES [See Cup of the Lord or the Cup of Devils?]   

MUSIC

Music is very important for the Christian life. The Bible has much to say 
about music and warns God's people to avoid carnal music. The following 
materials offer biblical guideliness on music in an hour of confusion. For 
those who desire to obtain good music, we recommend the following sources: 
Concord & Harmony, 328 Rosalia Street, Oshkosh, WI 54901. Faith Music 
Missions, P.O. Box 2463, Evansville, IN 47714. Majesty Music, P.O. Box 
6524, Greenville, SC 29606. John Marshall Family, 4220 E. Galbraith Road, 
Cincinnati, OH 45236. Mina Oglesby, 632 North Moore Road, Chattanooga, TN 
37411.Sound Recordings, P.O. Box 128, Valdosta, GA 31603.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GOOD AND BAD MUSIC, THE  (ALAN IVES) [WOL458B] Alan Ives 
is a highly trained Christian musician and an evangelist, and in this 
powerful message he shows how to discern between spiritual and unspiritual 
music. He delves into the nature of music and rhythms. He deals with text 
painting and the power of music. $2.00

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GOOD AND BAD MUSIC, THE  (AUDIO CASSETTE) (ALAN IVES) 
[454C] Same as the previous title, but on an audio cassette. Ives 
illustrates his message from the Bible as well as on various musical 
instruments. This important and interesting message is almost two hours 
long. $4.00

GOSPEL MUSIC: BLESSING OR BLIGHT? (KEN LYNCH) [323B] Evangelist Lynch is an 
accomplished musician, and his evangelistic ministry has carried him to 
nearly 45 states and several foreign lands. This important book deals 
primarily with Contemporary Christian Music. Chapter titles include: 
Musical definitions, The morality of music, What about Gospel rock? CCM: 
Alternative or Conformity? The biblical purpose of Christian music, and 
Guidelines for Gospel Music. $2.50

HOW TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GOOD AND BAD MUSIC See Difference 
Between Good and Bad Music.

IS TODAY'S CHRISTIAN MUSIC "SACRED"? (GORDON SEARS) [459B] "You may not 
have noticed that the word SACRED is no longer used in connection with 
gospel music. Perhaps this is because the word `sacred' means `holy, 
consecrated, opposed to profane and secular,'according to Webster's 
dictionary. ... Separation from the world in music is just as important as 
any other area of Bible separation." An excerpt from Is Today's Christian 
Music "Sacred"? $5.00

MOM AND DAD SLEEP WHILE THE CHILDREN ROCK IN SATAN'S CRADLE [See Rocking in 
Satan's Cradle.]

ROCKING IN SATAN'S CRADLE (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL022B] The author was a hippie 
before conversion and his personal testimony about rock music is included 
in the book. It has been used in a many churches and Christian schools. The 
latest edition includes four pages of suggested materials on the subject of 
music. Chapter titles include--What Rock Did for Me; Is This Really 
Important? What is Wrong with Rock? What Does the Bible say about Morally    
Corrupt Music? Ten Questions to Ask in Relation to One's Music; What Then 
Must I Do? Will My Decision Last? Should the Rock Beat Have a Place in 
Christian Music? Where Are the Parents? $4.50

SYMPHONY OF LIFE (MUSIC SEMINAR) (FRANK GARLOCK AND RON HAMILTON) [236C] 
One of the very best seminars on music available. Frank Garlock and Ron 
Hamilton know music--and better, they know the difference between spiritual 
and unspiritual music. In this series of messages they approach the subject 
from many angles, including the lyrics and the rhythm and the actual make-
up of music. They put the lie to the oft-repeated challenge that music is 
rhythmically neutral. $24.95

PROPHECY

DATE SETTING AND SIGN LOOKING (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL450B] Using Jack Van Impe's 
ministry as an illustration, the author warns about speculative prophecy. 
$ .50

PRE-WRATH RAPTURE [See Rapture: A Timely Question.]

RAPTURE: A TIMELY QUESTION, THE (ROBERT SARGENT) [WOL455B] An examination 
of the so-called pre-wrath rapture, mid- tribulation idea and a defense of 
the pre-tribulational rapture of the saints. $1.00

ROMAN CATHOLICISM

A COMMON BIBLE? (TBS) [169P] A look at the growing collusion between the 
United Bible Societies and the Roman Catholic Church in Bible translation 
and distribution. $ .35

ASSIMILATION OF EVANGELIST BILLY GRAHAM INTO THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 
(WILSON EWIN) [442B] This new book traces Billy Graham's increasingly cozy 
relationship with Romanism. Included are 28 pages of full-sized glossy 
photographs of Catholic ritual and the key Roman leaders who have 
influenced Graham. $3.25

BIBLE AND THE ROMAN CHURCH, THE (J.C. MACAULAY) [064B] An important look at 
Catholicism. Chapter titles are Roman Infallibles, Does Rome Suppress the 
Bible? The Perpetual Sacrifice, The Dogma of Transubstantiation, The Roman 
Priesthood, The Cult of Mary, Rome's Way of Salvation, Rome in History, and 
Lessons from Rome. In today's ecumenical atmosphere in which Rome is 
increasingly looked upon as a true Christian church, it is more essential 
than ever to know the truth about Romanism. $3.95

BORN AGAIN CATHOLICS AND THE MASS (WILLIAM STANDRIDGE) [037B] The author is 
an ordained fundamental Baptist preacher, a missionary to Italy since 1953, 
a church planter. Standridge has studied the Italian background of the 
Roman Catholic Church, as well as the daily news events which have shaken 
and shaped its recent history. His fluency in Italian has given him a 
unique opportunity to follow the political and religious situation in 
Italy. He is able to present documentation of the Roman Catholic Church 
which is not available to many American pastors, teachers or laymen. 
Contains helpful photographs. $2.00   

CAN WE COOPERATE WITH CATHOLICS? (WILLIAM STAND RIDGE) [193B] See Born 
Again Catholics and the Mass for information about the author. $ .50

CHURCH OF ROME: IT'S BEGINNING, EVOLUTION, STRUGGLE FOR WORLD CONTROL, AND 
IMPENDING DESTRUCTION (WILSON EWIN) [136B] A brief but tremendously helpful 
overview of the history and future of the Roman Catholic Church. Ewin has 
worked among Catholics in Ontario and the northeastern United States for 
many years. $1.25

EVANGELICAL CATHOLICS (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL404B] This study looks at the 
phenomenon of so-called evangelical Catholicism. This is particularly a 
phenomenon among Charismatic Catholics. The book Evangelical Catholics by 
Keith Fournier (foreword by Chuck Colson) is reviewed and refuted from 
Scripture. $1.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 1--BILLY GRAHAM (D.W. Cloud) [WOL406B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 1 deals with Billy Graham from 1950 to present. Thoroughly and 
carefully documented. $2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 2--KEY EVANGELICALS (D.W. Cloud) [WOL407B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 2 deals with popular evangelical leaders and organizations, 
including Campus Crusade, Christian Research Institute, James Dobson, Chuck 
Colson, Jerry Falwell, Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship, D. James 
Kennedy, J.I. Packer, Luis Palau, John R. Stott, and Youth for Christ. 
$2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 3--THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (D.W. CLOUD) 
[WOL451B] These volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical 
world's journey to Rome. Volume 3 deals with the Southern Baptist 
Convention. $2.50

FLIRTING WITH ROME: VOLUME 4--THE CHARISMATICS (D.W. Cloud) [WOL452B] These 
volumes trace the amazing history of the evangelical world's journey to 
Rome. Volume 4 deals with the Charismatic Movement. $2.50

IS MOTHER TERESA A TRUE CHRISTIAN? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL181B] Is Mother Teresa 
a born again Christian? Does she teach the people under her care the true 
Gospel? This book contains an interview with a nun who works with Mother 
Teresa's Sisters of Charity. Read this amazing interview and learn what 
this Calcutta-trained nun does to prepare Hindus for death. $1.50

IS THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CHANGING? (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL014B] A study from 
official Vatican II documents which proves that the RCC has not changed its 
false position on such things as the mass, the papacy, Mary, purgatory, the 
priesthood, prayers to the dead, and the sacraments. The author also shows 
that Vatican II affirms the blasphemous declarations of the Council of 
Trent.$1.75

PAPAL SUPREMACY (D.W. CLOUD) [WOL334B] This book deals with the Roman dogma 
of papal supremacy, its history and present status. It contains    
documentation of papal acclaim by a wide variety of non-Catholic church 
leaders, including evangelicals and charismatics. Papal Supremacy also 
contains a Bible study which refutes Roman teaching. $3.00

WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH? (WILLIAM STANDRIDGE) [189B] 
See Born Again Catholics and the Mass for information about the author. 
This book, together with Is the Roman Catholic Church Changing, give a 
clear picture of Romanism today. $2.00

YOU CAN LEAD ROMAN CATHOLICS TO CHRIST (WILSON EWIN) [380B] Much helpful 
material for dealing with Roman Catholics. This newest edition contains 
pictures, and includes chapters dealing with the present crisis in 
Romanism, the Catholic pentecostal movement, as well as the collapse of 
interest among evangelicals in bringing truth to Catholics. $6.00

STANDARDS [SEE CHRISTIAN STANDARDS]
