contact: BETSY@KSUVM      "Betsy Edwards" 
 
 
Ethical use of computing services at Kansas State University
 
(This policy statement is published by Computing and Telecommunications
Activities, Cardwell 20, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kansas
66506.  It is available in brochure form in the CTA Information Center
in Cardwell 23.  Last publishing date: in the October 1988 issue of the
CTA Newsletter.  Contact person:  Betsy Edwards, Bitnet BETSY@KSUVM.)
 
 
The intent of computing at Kansas State University is to promote
administrative, educational, and research efforts.  Preventing access to
computing resources with sophisticated security measures is
counterproductive since it reduces the capability of the system for
responsible users.  Thus, an ethical computing attitude is promoted
among the user community.
 
Users are expected to follow normal standards of ethics and polite
conduct in their use of the computing resources.  Responsible user
behavior includes consideration for other users, as well as efficient
use of the computing resources.  It is expected that users will behave
responsibly, ethically, and politely even in the absence of reminders or
enforcement.
 
Computing account numbers and other data required for access to
computing services are to be used for the purposes of accurate
accountability, are non-transferable, and are to be used only for the
projects listed in the application for such services.
 
User responsibility is the only ultimate safeguard against misuse.
However, when misuse is discovered, punitive measures will be taken
against the misusers.  We feel that if these measures are well
publicized, the users will be careful to use the computer for valid
purposes only.
 
 
      -------------------------------------------------------
      |     Computer Crime and Unlawful Computer Access     |
      -------------------------------------------------------
 
According to Section 21-3755 of the Kansas Criminal Code, which went
into effect July 1, 1985, computer crime is:
 
(a)  Willfully and without authorization gaining or attempting to gain
access to and damaging, modifying, altering, destroying, copying,
disclosing, or taking possession of a computer, computer system,
computer network, or any other property;
 
(b)  using a computer, computer system, computer network, or any other
property for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme or artifice
with the intent to defraud or for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, services, or any other thing of value by means of false or
fraudulent pretense or representation; or
 
(c)  willfully exceeding the limits of authorization and damaging,
modifying, altering, destroying, copying, disclosing, or taking
possession of a computer, computer system, computer network, or any other
property.
 
Unlawful computer access is willfully, fraudulently and without
authorization gaining or attempting to gain access to any computer,
computer system, computer network or to any computer software, program,
documentation, data, or property contained in any computer, computer
system, or computer network.
 
 
Penalties
---------
 
Under Kansas law, computer crime which causes a loss of less than $150 is
a class A misdemeanor and is subject to a fine up to $2,500 and up to
one year imprisonment.  Computer crime which causes a loss of $150 or
more is a class E felony and carries a minimum sentence of one year
imprisonment, with a maximum of two to five years, and a fine not to
exceed $10,000.
 
Under Kansas law, unlawful computer access is considered a class A
misdemeanor and subject to a maximum of one year imprisonment and a fine
up to $2,500.
 
 
      -------------------------------------------------------
      |                  Computer Misuse                    |
      -------------------------------------------------------
 
In the following paragraphs, we define four types of computer misuse,
along with additional University punitive measures.
 
 
Unauthorized Computing
----------------------
 
This is computing that is unrelated to the stated purpose for use of a
university computer system.  The stated purpose is determined by the
head of the administrative unit (such as an academic department) in
charge of the computing resource.  Examples of this type of misuse are
computer games (when not a part of the class), personal use, and reports
and papers which are not specifically designated for preparation on the
computer.  The penalty for unauthorized computing is loss of access to
the computer resource and repayment of the funds expended in
unauthorized usage.
 
 
Unauthorized Access
-------------------
 
This type of access is enumerated in three categories:
 
The first category is defined to include access by a user to an account
or file of another user for the purposes of copying the contents and
representing it as his or her own work.  This is to be interpreted as
plagiarism and is therefore subject to Kansas State University's
Academic Ethics, Behavior, and Grievance Procedures.  Examples of this
include copying programs and reports and representing them as one's own
work.  In this situation, departmentally defined procedures will be
followed and repayment of the unauthorized funds is required.
 
The second category is access to another user's account for the purpose
of avoiding use of one's own funds.  This is considered theft and is
prosecutable as such under Kansas law.
 
The third category is access to another user's account and/or files or
electronic mail for the purpose of invading an individual's privacy.
This is considered breach of privacy and is prosecutable under Kansas
law.
 
 
Unauthorized Copying of Software
--------------------------------
 
Since there is a substantial increase in the use of personal computers
on campus, there is great danger that the University could be held
liable for copying of software which is protected by license,
particularly if it is subsequently sold or given away.  Any unauthorized
copying of licensed software is therefore considered as theft from the
University and a violation of the copyright laws.
 
 
Harassment Using a Computer
---------------------------
 
The use of computer messages, electronic mail, or other mechanisms for
the purpose of harassing other users is to be considered misuse of the
computer.  The punitive measure is loss of access to the computer
resource.
 
========================================================================

