                       UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO

                 Passwords and Computer Security

To access the central computer, you will be given a user
identification code by your instructor.  In addition, you and/or
your instructor will assign a password for your use.  The
combination of the user identification code and your password is
your key to the central computer files and account that you
create or are assigned.  You can change the password as often as
you wish.  Your password should be considered private information
and not be passed on to any one.  Never write down your password.
Protect your key to your computer files just like you protect
other keys to your personal property.

Computer privacy and security are very important concerns on our
campus.  Computer Services has a variety of security checks in
the system to protect you from loss of data and funds.  If you
suspect that your files have been altered or access has been
gained to your account, notify your instructor and/or Computer
Services immediately.  The 1984 Idaho Legislature enacted the
most comprehensive computer crime law that may exist in the
country.  It is now a criminal act to attempt to access
unauthorized computer files and accounts, as well as to gain
access and use or modify unauthorized files and records.  The
University believes computer security is so important that the
offender, irrespective of the intent, will be prosecuted.  In
addition, the violation will be addressed as a violation of the
Student Code of Conduct.  Please protect your password, change it
periodically, and report any suspected violations.  Computer
privacy must be protect in order for all users to enjoy the
benefits of the system. 
