Principles of Wiccan Beliefs 
  
1.        We practice rites to attune ourselves with the natural rhythm 
of life forces marked by the phases of the Moon and the seasonal 
Quarters and Cross Quarter. 
  
2.        We recognize that our intelligence gives us a unique 
responsibility toward our environment. We seek to live in harmony with 
Nature, in ecological balance offering fulfillment to life and 
consciousness within an evolutionary concept. 
  
3.        We acknowledge a depth of power far greater than that 
apparent to the average person. Because it is far greater than ordinary 
it is sometimes called “supernatural”, but we see it as lying within 
that which is naturally potential to all. 
  
 4.        We conceive of the Creative Power in the universe as 
manifesting through polarity -- as masculine and feminine -- and that 
this same Creative Power lies in all people, and functions through the 
interaction of the masculine and feminine. We value neither above the 
other, knowing each to be supportive to the other. We value sex as 
pleasure, as the symbol and embodiment of life, and as one of the 
sources of energies used in magickal practice and religious worship.
 
5.        We recognize both outer worlds and inner, or psychological, 
worlds sometimes known as the Spiritual World, the Collective 
Unconscious, Inner Planes, etc. -- and we see in the inter-action of 
these two dimensions the basis for paranormal phenomena and magickal 
exercises. We neglect neither dimension for the other, seeing both as 
necessary for our fulfillment.
 
 6.        We do not recognize any authoritarian hierarchy, but do 
honor those who teach, respect those who share their greater knowledge 
and wisdom, and acknowledge those who have courageously given of 
themselves in leadership.
 
7.        We see religion, magick and wisdom in living as being united 
in the way one views the world and lives within it -- a world view and 
philosophy of life which we identify as Witchcraft -- the Wiccan Way.
 
8.        Calling oneself "Witch" does not make a Witch -- but neither 
does heredity itself, not the collecting of titles, degrees and 
initiations. A Witch seeks to control the forces within her/himself 
that make life possible in order to live wisely and well without harm 
to others and in harmony with Nature.
 
9.        We believe in the affirmation and fulfillment of life in a 
continuation of evolution and development of consciousness giving 
meaning to the Universe we know and our personal role within it.
 
10.        Our only animosity towards Christianity, or towards any 
other religion or philosophy of life, is to the extent that its 
institutions have claimed to be “the only way” and have sought to deny 
freedom to others and to suppress other ways of religious practice and 
belief.
 
11.        As American Witches, we are not threatened by debates on the 
history of the Craft, the origins of various terms, the legitimacy of 
various aspects of different traditions. We are concerned with our 
present and our future.
 
12.        We do not accept the concept of absolute evil, nor do we 
worship any entity known as "Satan" or "the Devil", as defined by the 
Christian traditions. We do not seek power through the suffering of 
others, nor accept that personal benefit can be derived only by denial 
to another.
 
13.        We believe that we should seek within Nature that which is 
contributory to our health and well-being.
  
The afore mentioned principles are from the Council of American Witches 
circa 1974 . 

        **********************************************************



