      To:  All                        Message #:  3360 
    From:  Paul Seymour               Submitted:  14 Jun 91 22:07:00  
 Subject:  WICCAN GLOSSARY (5 OF 5)      Status:  Public
Received:  No                             Group:  METAPHYSICAL (35)

 * Moved from area WICCA Echo Area

^aEID:d328 000400bd
^aMSGID: 1:301/9 67161ed2
 * Forwarded from "METAPHYSICAL"
 * Originally from Paul Seymour
 * Originally dated 06-14-91 22:05

           A GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN WICCA
                   PART 5 OF 5
   Copyright 1991 by Rowan Moonstone and Durwydd MacTara

WAND- A rod or staff that is prepared so that it may be used
for magickal or psychic purposes, usually to project some
form of power.

WARLOCK- a term coined in the Burning Times . It was used to
denote a traitor to the Craft, or one who had betrayed the
followers of the Old Religion. It's origin is Scottish.
Because of the negative connotations, it is not used by most
Wiccans today.

WATCH TOWERS- Originally from the Enochian branch of
Ceremonial Magick, now incorporated into many "Traditions"
of Wicca, these are the four elemental "directions" or
"quarters" (corresponding to the appropriate points on the
compass) called to protect the Circle during its
establishment. Each of them have a correspondence between
the compass point, an element, and (varying amongst
different traditions) color associated with them.

WICCA- the name most modern day Witches use for the Craft.
It comes from the Anglo-Saxon word Wicce, meaning to bend or
to shape. This is the root word from which we get wicker.

WIDDERSHINS- counter clock wise. Used for "tearing  down"
OR BANISHING magick.

WHITE HANDLED KNIFE- the working knife of a Witch. It is
used to carve candles, and for fashioning the other tools.
Traditionally, it can only be used in a Circle.

--- OPMED 2.00
 * Origin: BaphoNet-by-the-Sea -- 718/499-9277 (1:278/666)
=-=-=-=-=
