                             THE POOR LITTLE WITCH
                               by Jack T. Chick
                   adapted from comic form by J. Brad Hicks

On a crowded volleyball court, one girl lay dejected on the ground.  Her
classmates derided her:  "@#*!! Mandy dropped the ball AGAIN!"  "Of course!"
"Mandy! ... Can't you do ANYTHING right?"  "Why do we have to put up with
HER?"  Mandy could only sob, "I'm sorry!"

That night, she went to her mom for sympathy, but her mother didn't even look
up from the bills.  "Don't talk to me now, Mandy!  Can't you see I'm busy?
Since your father left us I'm the only one to support this family ..."

Alone in her room, Mandy was inconsolable.  "I'd give anything to be like the
other girls ... If only I could BE someone!"  A passing demon smiled, and
silently said, "You CAN be ... I'll see to that!"

The next day in one of her classes, the pretty young teacher singled her out.
"Mandy, could you stay after school please?"  ("Oh. Oh. What did I do wrong?"
worried Mandy.)  But the teacher wanted to talk about something else.  "Mandy,
I know you're lonely, but you're such a sweet and talented girl ... You should
have a lot of friends."  Mandy was dumb-struck.  "Me?"

Later, she told her mother, "Mom, my teacher, Mrs. White, has invited me to a
slumber party at her house this weekend.  She's really nice.  Can I go?"  Her
mother replied, "Sure, why not?"

That weekend, as Mandy approached the house, Mrs. White warned the other
girls.  "We have a new girl ... Mandy!  Go easy with her.  She doesn't know!"

That night, one of the girls said to her, "Hey, Mandy, do you want to learn
some really neat new things?"  "Sure," said Mandy.  Another girl nudged her
and said, "Watch this."  In minutes, the coffee table was hovering several
feet above the ground.

Mandy was astonished!  "WOW!  Could I do that?"  "It's easy," the girl
replied, "we'll show you how."

Two weeks later, one of the older girls in the group came to Mandy with a
suggestion.  "Hey, Mandy, how would you like to see the other girls drop the
ball in P.E.?"

Mandy didn't have to think twice.  "I WISH!  They're always putting me down.
Is there a way?"

The older girl nodded, and said, "Sure ... here's what you do.  Before you go
to school, light a candle, sit and stare into the light and ask Bruth to help
you."

"Who's Bruth?" Mandy wanted to know.

"Oh ... he's just a friend," the other girl replied.  "Just try it and you'll
see."

The next morning before school, Mandy sat on her bed and stared hard at the
candle on the nightstand.  "Oh, Bruth, you are my friend.  Please help me in
P.E. today!  Make Cathy drop the ball!" she said.  Feeling something more was
required, she added, "I command you!"  The half-visible demon hovering just
outside her field of vision nodded.  "Gotcha, Baby!" he silently replied.

And that day in P.E., it was a different girl who crouched on the volleyball
court after a painful stumble.  A teammate berated her, "Cathy, you're
screwing up today.  That's the THIRD TIME ... even Mandy's playing better than
you!"  In the back, Mandy secretly smiled.  "WOW!" she thought, "This is
great!"

Across town in the big new church building, a crowd gathers around the large
and cheerful figure of the new pastor.  "Pastor ... what a blessing to have
you lead our congregation," one woman gushes.  A balding gentleman held out a
thick wad of bills, and said, "Here's a love gift, Reverend, go buy some new
suits."  Another man asked, "Do you find the parsonage comfortable, Rev.
Chuckwyn?"  Pastor Chuckwyn was enthusiastic.  "Oh my yes, Mr. White ... It's
a palace.  Why, I've never been treated so well ... Praise the Lord!"  A demon
hidden at the back of the crowd had other thoughs.  "We'll take good care of
you, Chuckwyn!" he silently vowed.

After the Pastor left, saying to himself, "They love me!", there was a meeting
upstairs at the big new church.

"What do you think of him?"  "He's a JERK ... he doesn't believe the Bible ...
so he's ours ... bought and paid for."  "We'll use the same technique on him
as we did with the others.  Next month I'll ask him to join the lodge."  "GOOD
... our church will grow fast because he won't offend anyone!"

Meanwhile, Mrs. White had important news.  "Mandy, you have grown so fast that
we feel you should attend this meeting.  You will really increase your
powers."  Flattered, Mandy replied, "That's great, Mrs. White!"

In the car on their way to the "meeting," Mandy and Mrs. White happened to
pass by a small downtown church.  The hymn "Power in the Blood" filled the
air, and filled Mrs. White with fear and rage.  Mandy saw Mrs. White's
reaction, and was concerned.  "What's the matter, Mrs. White, are you sick?
You're shaking!"

Mrs. White glared at the simple, hand-painted sign that read "Gospel Hall" and
obliquely replied, "Don't ever go in that place, Mandy, it's very evil ... One
of our traitors goes there!  Don't ever have anything to do with old Mrs.
Grayson or that place ... You'll be sorry if you do."

It was dark and the full moon was rising when the two women arrived at an old
barn outside of town.  "Gee, Mrs. White," said Mandy, "I've never seen any
place like this ... What's going on?"  Mrs. White was silent, but thought to
herself, "You haven't seen nuthin' yet, kid!"

Inside, everyone wore identical black robes.  A sinister-looking man ascended
the altar and addressed the crowd.  "Welcome, beloved brothers and sisters.
Tonight is a night of great celebration and sacrifice to our most Holy Father
in order that he might poor out his his blessings upon us."

A woman knelt before him and blindly offered up her baby.  Candles flickered
as the leader continued, "Sister Loraine has especially conceived this child
for tonight."  He laid the baby on the altar, and his dagger rose high as the
crowd circled round and, over the baby's terrified cries, chanted, "HAIL
SATAN!" [1]

Within her hooded robe, Mandy gasped, dumb-struck and paralyzed with fear.
"This can't be!" she thought to herself.  But Mrs. White, robed like the rest,
turned to her with a large chalice.  "Here, Mandy, you MUST drink of the
child's blood and our Father will bless you and give you increased powers."

"No! ... No!  I can't ... I'm sick," Mandy desperately cried.

But Mrs. White was grimly determined.  "Drink, Mandy!  OR DIE!"

Terrified, Mandy surrendered.  "O.K., O.K. ... I'll do it."

In the car driving away, Mrs. White was displeased, and Mandy was still
horror-stricken.  Mrs. White grimly said, "Mandy, I see you were quite upset
tonight ... Don't even THINK of going to the police!  Our High Priest IS the
Chief of Police! ... There's no way out!"

Alone in her room, Mandy sobbed hysterically.  "I had no idea what I was
getting into ... There MUST be a way out," she moaned.  "I've never been so
scared in my life ... what am I going to do?"

In her desperation, Mandy went to the big Christian church looking for help,
unaware that Mr. And Mrs. White are members.  The pastor enthusiastically
proclaimed, "Welcome to God's house!" and Mandy thought, "Maybe he can help
me," but in the choir loft, Mrs. White had other thoughts.  "Surprise,
surprise. There's little Mandy ... When I tell the High Priest ... she's
dead!"

After church, it was an angry crowd of adults who approached Reverend
Chuckwyn.  A tall woman started off with strong words.  "Pastor, a witch
visited our church this morning.  If she joins our church, she'll destroy our
children!  You MUST speak out against witchcraft or we leave!"

A grim look swept across the pastor's face, and he said, "This is most
distressing."

The tall woman's balding husband handed the pastor another wad of money and
said, "Pastor, here's another little gift showing our appreciation ... Just
get rid of the witch, O.K.?"

That evening, Reverend Chuckwyn's demeanor was less cheerful.  Angrily, he
shouted, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live[2] ... We will NOT tolerate
witches here!  They are reprobate!  (Fore-ordained to damnation.)"[3]  As the
choir shouted, "AMEN!", Mandy gasped.  "He's speaking about me!  What am I
going to do?" she thought to herself.

On the night of the next full moon, she nerved herself up to visit a house on
the edge of town.  "Mrs. White said that Mrs. Grayson was a traitor," Mandy
worried aloud.  "I've got nothing to lose ... I've GOT to take the chance!  Oh
God ... help me!"  As the rising moon looked on, Mandy knocked on the door.

The door opened, and a woman looked out and gently said, "Come in, my dear.
May I help you?"

At her kindness, Mandy began to sob again.  "I'm in such trouble," Mandy
began.  "Mrs. White said there's no way out."

Recognition spread across Mrs. Grayson's face.  "Oh, yes there is ... I know
Mrs. White and she's a liar."  After they went in and sat down, Mrs. White
asked, "You got into Satanism, didn't you, dear?"

Still sobbing, Mandy choked out, "Yes, and they killed a baby and ... and ..."
She gasped for breath and continued on another tack.  "How can I get out?
Even that pastor said there's no hope for me."

Mrs. White asked, "The church on Maple Road?"

"Yes," Mandy replied.

Mrs. White helped her up and led her out to the car.  "I was in the craft once
and I know these people mean business.  They WILL kill you if they can.  Come
with me now, sweetie.  I was just on my way to church.  These people are TRUE
servants of God ... We'll show you how you can be set free."

And at the Gospel Hall, after the service, the pastor spoke privately with
Mandy and Mrs. Grayson.  "Mandy," he said, "Jesus Christ died on the cross for
your sins.[4]  His precious blood cancels any contract you've made with Satan
and it washes away your sins.[5]  All you have to do is pray and ask Jesus
Christ to save you[6] and become your Lord and Master ... Then you can use His
power to get rid of the demons.[7]"

The three of them knelt, and Mandy quietly prayed.  "Lord Jesus, please
forgive me and wash me clean.  I want you as my Lord and personal Savior .. I
want to serve YOU instead of Satan."

The pastor gently interrupted, "Now Mandy, you must rebuke Satan and his
demons in the name of Jesus."

Determined, Mandy prayed on.  "Satan, I will no longer serve you.  Jesus is
now my Savior, Lord and Master ... Bruth, you and all you demons in my body,
soul and spirit ... I command you now to leave me at once in the name of Jesus
Christ[8] my Lord!"  And several ghostly demons came out of her body and fled
screaming into the moonlit night.[9]

As they rose from their knees, Mrs. Grayson said to Mandy, "You must not go
home alone tonight, dear ... This is the full moon ... It's too dangerous."

"Yes, Mandy," the pastor agreed, "Stay with us for awhile ... They'll try to
kill you."  "Please, Mandy!" Mrs. Grayson pleaded.

But Mandy smiled confidently and said, "Oh ... No thank you!  I'll be
alright."

But as Mandy walked home alone, a black van with a pentacle in the rear window
pulled up beside her, and two thugs jumped out and grabbed her.  "It's party
time, kid," said one of them as they shoved her into the back. Mandy was
murdered by the satanists, but she stood firm and didn't deny Jesus.

That same night, Pastor Chuckwyn died in his sleep.

As Mandy knelt before the throne of God, the Figure on the throne proclaimed,
"Well done thou good and faithful servant ... you did not deny my name[10] ...
therefore I am not ashamed of you, Mandy.  Enter thou into the joy of the
Lord."

Then Pastor Chuckwyn stood before the throne, waving his hands and shouting,
"Here I am, Lord."  But Jesus said to him, "Chuckwyn, you worker of iniquity
(evil).  The blood of Mandy and many others is on your hands.  You called on
my name but did not follow my commands.  You worked for money and the praise
of men ... and you despised the word of God.  NOW, DEPART FROM ME INTO
HELL."[11]

______________________________________________________________________________

 1. Note: Police estimate between 40,000 to 60,000 ritual homicides per year
    occur in the U.S.  (Dr. A. Carlisle - Homocide Investigation Seminar, Las
    Vegas, Nevada, 1986)
 2. Ex. 22:18
 3. But: "The Lord is ... not willing that ANY should perish, but that all
    should come to repentance."  II Peter 3:9
 4. I Cor. 15:3-4
 5. Rev. 1:5
 6. Rom. 10:13
 7. Luke 10:19-20
 8. Acts 16:16-18
 9. For an in-depth expose of the occult, send for _He Came to Set the
    Captives Free_ and _Prepare for War_, by Rebecca Brown, M.D., Published by
    Chick Publications, Inc.
10. Matt. 10:32,33
11. Matt. 7:21-23, John 14:15

               THE BIBLE SAYS THERE'S ONLY ONE WAY TO HEAVEN.

Jesus said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the
Father, but by me."  (John 14:6)

NOBODY ELSE CAN HELP YOU.

"For there is one God, and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ
Jesus."  (I Timothy 2:5)

"For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is
the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast."  (Ephesians 2:8-9)

WHAT YOU MUST DO:  PRAY TO GOD IN YOUR OWN WORDS:

1. ADMIT that you are a sinner, and that only the Lord Jesus can save you.
   (Romans 3:23)
2. REPENT: be willing to turn away from sin and submit to God. (See Luke 13:5)
3. BELIEVE that the Lord Jesus Christ died on the cross and shed his blood to
   pay the price for your sins, and that he rose again.  (See Romans 10:9)
4. ASK God to save you.  (See Romans 10:13)
5. ASK Jesus Christ to be the Lord (take control) of your life.  (See Romans
   12:1-2)

IF YOU REALLY MADE JESUS YOUR LORD (KING), THEN ACT LIKE IT!

1. Read your Bible every day to get to know Christ better.
2. Talk to God in prayer every day.
3. Find a church where the Bible is taught as the complete Word of God and is
   the final authority.
4. Obey Christ's command and be baptized.  (See Matthew 28:19)
______________________________________________________________________________

brought to you by  CHICK PUBLICATIONS
                   P. O. Box 662, Chino, Calif. 91710 U.S.A.
                   Telephone: (714) 987-0771
                   Send $5.00 for Sample Assortment and Price List

adapted from the comic version by  J. Brad Hicks
                                   3900 Roland, Apt. B
                                   St. Louis, MO 63121 USA
                                   FidoNet...  1:100/523, Brad Hicks
                                   CompuServe  Brad Hicks [76012,300]
                                   GEnie.....  BRADHICKS

Adapter's notes:  Strong words from the only man who still defends John W.
"Lance Collins" Todd (from whose testimony most of this is derived).  Here are
a few facts to ward off hysteria:

* That levitating table at the beginning is a thigh-slapper.  Considering what
  witches have to spend every year in legal fees just to be allowed to hold
  jobs in this so-called "land of the free," if magic on that scale were so
  easy, do you really think that the hundreds of thousands of dollars that
  have been put up as prizes to anyone who can reliable demonstrate ANY ONE
  psychic ability would still be unclaimed?  Follow this rule-of-thumb and
  you'll seldom go wrong: the more extravagant someone claims their powers are
  (or their enemies' power is), the more likely it is that that person is a
  charlatan.

* The entire Viet Nam war killed about 20,000 Americans.  Yet Jack Chick and
  Dr. Carlisle would have you believe that TWO to THREE TIMES that many people
  are ritually murdered EVERY YEAR.

* According to the National Safety Council, about 46,000 Americans die in
  automobile accidents every year.  How many people that you knew were killed
  in automobile accidents?  By Satanists?

* In the same year that Dr. Carlisle made that incredible claim, the FBI
  reported ... not 53,000 ... not 5300 ... but only 53 unsolved disappearances
  of children.

* The original Church of Satan, in southern California, has closed due to a
  lack of members.  Its largest surviving splinter, the Temple of Set, has not
  millions ... not tens of thousands ... but a few dozen members.  At its
  largest, the Satanic Church of the Process (and various groups related to
  it) numbered a few dozen churches, with less than a thousand members - and
  they have since mostly faded out.  Not counting drugged-out kooks and lone
  psychopaths (who will latch onto any excuse for their mayhem), and ignorant
  and rebellious kids, there are probably less than 200 real Satanic witches
  in the entire U.S., and only one known Satanic church.  That's less than one
  Satanist per MILLION people; most people have probably never MET one.  (And
  NONE of them have been charged with any crime.)

* On the other hand, NON-Satanic witches, such as the Fam-Trads, Dianics, and
  Neo-Pagans, number into the tens of thousands or more.  They don't kill
  animals, let alone children;  theirs is a religion that worships life and
  whose Goddess told them, "Nor do I demand any sacrifice, for behold, I am
  the Mother of all things, and my love is poured forth upon the Earth."

* Here's a Scripture for Jack Chick and the other witch-hunters, from their
  own Bible:  "Do not pervert justice; do not show partiality to the poor or
  favoritism to the great, but judge your neighbor fairly.  Do not go about
  spreading slander among your people.  Do not do anything which endangers
  your neighbor's life."  (Lev. 19:15-16 NIV)  And another:  "Do not follow
  the crowd in doing wrong.  When you give testimony in a lawsuit, do not
  pervert justice by siding with the crowd. ... Have nothing to do with a
  false charge and do not put an innocent or honest person to death, for I
  will not acquit the guilty. ... Do not oppress an alien (someone not of your
  people); you yourselves know how it feels to be aliens, because you were
  aliens in Egypt."  (Ex. 23:2-9 NIV)  And if that's too hard, let's try one
  of the Ten Commandments: "You shall not give false testimony against your
  neighbor."  (Ex. 20:16 NIV)
