 

                   BASIC SPELL CONSTRUCTION



Because of the very nature of Magick, each working should be highly
individualized and personal.  Even if following a traditional spell,
it should be tailored to your specific needs to be most effective
for you.  Understanding the basics of Spell Construction will enable
you to formulate your own specific, effective spells for any purpose
you desire.

Preliminary planning is necessary.  The very first step is to decide
precisely what your desired end result is to be.  Before you can
start, you must decide where you are going.  You must be very
explicit.

It is important, also, that you choose your time carefully.  You
should take into consideration all Astrological implications, energy
currents and Moon phases.

The Moon is the astronomical body closest to us and, therefore, has
a profound influence upon us, it is very important to choose a time
when the Moon is in an astrological sign which is appropriate for
your working.  For example:  Aries/Action - Enthusiasm, Taurus/
Renewal - Sensuality, Gemini/Communication - Curiosity, Cancer/
Emotion - Nurturing, Leo/Vitality - Determined, Virgo/Organizing -
Studious, Libra/Balance - Cooperation, Scorpio/Sexual -
Philosophical, Capricorn/Authority - Ambitious, Aquarius/Innovation
- Social, Pisces/Sensitivity - Idealistic.

Bear in mind that magickal workings for gain, increase or bringing
things to you, should be initiated when the Moon is Waxing (from
Dark to Full);  when the Moon is Waning (from Full to Dark), it is
time for magickal workings of decrease or sending away.

The highest energy occurs at the Full Moon and, therefore, this is
the most powerful time for magickal workings.  The New Moon is the
next most powerful time for Magick.

Whenever possible, follow Nature's natural Energy Currents.  There
is a natural time for starting things (a planting time), for
maturing things (a growing time), for reaping things ( a harvest
time) and, of course, a time for rest and planning.

Flowing with these currents will make your magickal work much easier.
Remember to plan your project for a time of uninterrupted privacy.
It is important that you have no distractions.  Generally speaking,
it is best to work as late at night as possible.  A time when there
is less frantic energy is most appropriate.  You might consider
Midnight or later.

In choosing a place to do your magickal working pay particular
attention to your needs, for you must be comfortable.  Your place
should be private, quiet and secure.  If at all possible, set aside
a special place for this purpose only.  An unused room, a special
corner of your bedroom, a quiet, secluded spot in your garden.  A
place that is yours.  A place that you can come to whenever need
arises and that is as free from intrusion of others as possible.

Prior to the night of your magickal working, gather together the
things that you will need.  All of the things used are tools.  They
have no inherent magick.  They are to help you create a mood.  If
correctly made and used, they will trigger primitive responses from
deep within you.  They should be chosen with care.
Consider the purpose of your ritual and choose your tools
accordingly.  If your magick is to be sexual, your candles, oils,
incenses and so forth, should bring forth a sexual response.  If the
desired result of your Magick is Tranquillity, then the tools should
make you feel calm, peaceful and serene.  Any candles you might use
should not have commercially added fragrances as these may not be
appropriate for your working.

Prior to your ritual, prepare yourself and your equipment by any
means necessary to clean and purify.  Historically, people have
fasted, followed meticulous and detailed bathing practices,
practiced chastity and used many other methods.

Most often a Ritual Bath is the preferred method.  A bath frequently
utilizing candlelight, fragrant herbs, bath salts or sensuous oils.
A sumptuous hot bath, special bathing preparations and appropriate
lighting, combined, can create the soothing effect which will help
in the very important step of relaxing and clearing the mind completely
of all mundane thoughts and experiences of the day.  Your ritual
Bath should, also, begin to set the specific vibrations conducive to
your purpose into motion.  You must not only cleanse and purify but
must, also, begin to create the type of energy necessary.
Once your purification process has been accomplished, you are now
ready to begin.  Proceed to the special place you have previously
chosen in which to perform your magick.  If at all possible, you
should make use of the primitive responses set into motion by a well
chosen piece of music.  Your music should start slowly and build to
a rousing climax.

As you use your oils, light your candle or incense (or utilize any
other tool you have chosen), you should begin to further intensify
the energy that you have set into motion around you.  A high degree
of intensity is vitally important.

The Altered State of Consciousness that you must reach is not a
meditative state.  Anything that interferes with your ability to
concentrate upon, reach and control the high energy state necessary
to perform magick should be avoided.  Such as, screaming children, a
sink full of dirty dishes, use of alcohol or drugs, etc.

Do not scatter your energy by attempting to do more than one
magickal working at a time.

Remember that Magick is the manipulation of energy, a thought is a
form of energy and a visualization is an even stronger form of
energy.  Your visualization can be a method used to intensify
further and direct your will.  Your visualization can be the method
by which you control the magickal energy you have produced.
You must know what you want.  You must see it.  You must feel the
high energy flow.  You must direct it.

One of the most important elements in the practice of any form of
Magick is the Universal Law of Cause and Effect.  This means that
whatever you do (or don't do) you cause something to happen.

The most important consideration is the Universal Law of
Retribution. This means that no matter what you do, it comes back
to you in like kind.

It is the nature of things that as you send something out it gains
momentum, so that, by the time it comes back to you, it is three
times stronger.  If you do something nice for someone, someone will
do something nicer for you.

"As you weave and
 spin your spell,
Three fold return
 the tale will tell."



EARTH-RITE / Mission San Jose, CA/ 415-651-9496
Copyright  (c)  1981 by "The Witching Well Education  &  Research
Center"  Used by Permission.



            ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////
            //               The PIRATES' HOLLOW                 //
            //                  415-236-2371                     //
            //         over 12 Megs of Elite Text Files          //
            //                  ROR-ALUCARD                      //
            //             Sysop: Doctor Murdock                 //
            // C0-Sysops: That One, Sir Death, Sid Gnarly & Finn //
            //                                                   //
            //    "The Gates of Hell are open night and day;     //
            //     Smooth is the Descent, and Easy is the way.." //
            ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
