                              "BE READY TO FLY.."

                                by Brother 143


A wealth of herbal lore is associated with the western end of the Indo-
European shamanic tradition; whether in its heydey when the Druids of ALBION 
were its ultimate repositories and guardians, or in its decline, in medieval 
witchcraft & slovanic paganism.  Central to this lore is the family of plants 
henbane, hemlock, & belladonna, etc.  Members of this family were the main 
ingredients in the legendary flying ointment, for which several known recipes
exist.

The manner of using such ointment for flying was for the (female) witch to 
stradle her ointment smeared broomstick, naked and possibly blindfolded with 
her back to an open door (a popular subject for engravers and artists).  
Henbane, the least toxic of the family, and we suspect the most frequently 
employed, dissolves readily in lard other finer oils, and the ointment thus 
prepared improves in left several days, getting progessively greener and 
stronger.

Experiments with henbane as a clitoral stimulant reveal the essential 
practicality of the witches' modus operandi.  We quote from one such couple's 
account of it.

"Relaxed.  Felt at one point as if I could taste/smell/breathe what my 
clitoris was tasting like, & a feeling of smooth hardness, i.e. its surface; 
this smell was slightly medicinal; clitoris now (45 minutes after the first 
application) discernably cool"....."during intercourse my vagina felt both 
numb and aroused at the same time; during slow movement it became a brief
displeasure."

The male participant noted "distinct numbness and coolness in tongue, mouth 
and nose - similar to Novacaine injection but without swelling.  Nor was 
tactile sensation diminished so much as altered."

Experiments with henbane ointment as a ritual aid applied to sensitive skin 
such as genitals, armpits & wrists similarly induce "identification" or 
"transference", enabling the participants more readily enter into the ritual 
& be it rather than simply "attend" it.

Although out professional ethics specifically preclude priestesses standing in 
a draught for 45 minutes we can safely conclude that flying ointment applied 
to the clitoris with sufficient ventilation could induce a state where the 
"witch" was identified totally with her clitoris & thus personally 
experiencing quite extreme cold and a feeling of rushing though air.

No experiment has resulted in ill-effects, quite the contrary, even where the 
priest inevitably ingested unabsorbed ointment from the priestess.  
Nevertheless the death of Socrates should be sufficient warning about the 
toxic effects of these herbs taken internally, while their external 
application in any case privides a wealth of marvellous alternatives.


                   DOCTOR HARBERDEN'S MIRACULOUS FLYING OIL


Ingredients:    8 ounces Henbane seed pods
                6 fl. oz. Apricot kernel oil

Method:         Three days before the full moon, crush the Henbane seed pods 
                release the seeds.  Sift these to remove as much green matter 
                as possible.  This will probably leave about two ounces of 
                seeds.  Place the seeds in a sealable container and then add 
                the oil.

                For the next seven nights, place the container, unsealed, in 
                the light of the Moon, but keep the flask in a warm place 
                during daylight hours.  During this period, on the next 
                available  beneficial aspect between the Moon and Venus, 
                consecrate the oil to the Goddess by invocations to both Moon 
                and Venus, adding seven drops of rose oil.

                After seven nights of moonlight, seal the flask, and place it
                in a warm, dark place for seventy-one days, when it will be 
                ready for use.

                Watch out for the seeds, they tickle a bit.  And be careful 
                how much of the oil is applied, as more than a teaspoon is 
                likely to be counterproductive, if a lot of fun!




X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
