







Rifts World Book: North Dakota
By
Sean Satterlee
v1.00
































CREDITS
WRITER: Sean Satterlee
CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: John Sekerka, Brian Iamar, Mike Best
EDITOR: Sean Satterlee










































                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT....................4
INTRODUCTION................................4
LETTERS FROM ERIN TARN............5
LANDS.................................................6 
CITIES..................................................8
MINOR CITIES....................................10
ARMS AND EQUIPMENT..................12
VEHICLES............................................20
MILITARY MIGHT...............................27
NEW SKILLS........................................28
RACES AND OCCUPATIONS............30 
PSIONICS.............................................60
SURROUNDING AREAS.....................61
REACTIONS BY OTHER POWERS....62
NPC's.....................................................63 
ADVENTURE IDEAS............................70
EXPERIENCE TABLES.........................71




























                              ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I like to personally thank PlayeR2000 for allowing me to reprint
some of his characters in this book. 

Also I like to thank Capt MJB for allowing me to reprint some of
his characters too.

I like to thank John Sekerka for helping me create the Inuit
R.C.C.  Without him I wouldn't of been able to create it.

And finally I like to thank you for downloading this World book. 
I hope you enjoy it, and  it inspires you to create gaming
materials for RIFTS.

P.S. I almost forgot, even though we don't get along, I like to
thank Rob Niermeyer for getting me involved in Rifts and role
playing in general.  If it wasn't for him I would never of found
out about role playing or Rifts.
 
INTRODUCTION              
Welcome all to the world of North Dakota.  The land of excitement
and danger.  Where you are free to walk around as long as you
have the biggest weapon.  This land is full of mystery an
intrigue.  Technology runs rampant here, while psionics and magic
take a back seat.  This is where you can get out from under the
Coalitions yoke of tyranny, an enjoy life.  Granted it won't be
an easy life, but it will be a fulfilled life.  This is the land
where things are a little different than the rest, where what
appears to be a good guy or a good thing isn't.  

Depending on the success of this book I might come out with world
books for Lazlo, the North Pole, and a revised edition of Mutants
in Orbit.  Here is just a little bit of what I have in store for
Mutants in Orbit:  Ants dominate Mars threaten the entire galaxy,
further information and stats on McCoy, an more of ARCHIES latest
developments.  If you have any ideas and want a few suggestions,
E-mail and I will be glad to help you in anyway I can.  Also I
would like to tell you that I could not put graphics in this
version due to time.  If I would have put graphics in this
version you would be receiving this book around  Christmas time. 
The only graphics in this book is a map, which is not inside this
book but zipped up with it.
 
Please excuse any errors you might find in this book, this is
only my first version and book to be made so their is bound to be
some mistakes that I missed.  If you see any Major mistakes
please E-mail if you can, and let me know what is the problem.
                                           SEAN (JSATT)







Letters from Erin Tarn  101 P.A. circa
Dear loyal Readers,
                   As I was on my way to the western coast I
stopped in a town called Lazarus.  The reason I mention this is
because most of the locals were D-Bee's!  I had finally come upon
a town that was ruled by D-Bee's, and the local humans totally
accepted their rule.  Upon entering the town I was greeted by a
pair of Gromeks who escorted me to their king.  The town was
compact, it seemed the town was more worried about being
functional and defensive capabilities, than cleanliness and
beautification.  In fact it looked like the town was under siege,
everybody I saw carried some sort of weapon.  Most people I
passed gave me a nervous glance, if any at all, and quickened
their pace a little to get away from me.  I was shocked to see a
beautiful clean marbled structure in front of me.  It had gold
trimming on everything.  It was a weird sight to see this
structure surrounded by a sea of filth and trash.  I was not
surprised to find out that this was the King's palace.  Their
king was an impressive specimen.  I would guess him to be a very
powerful fighter even in his own race.  The Gromek king's name
was Grog.  Grog tried to be gracious and polite host but his
rough demeanor kept slipping out.  The Gromek seemed to be
concerned about something, for they kept asking me weird
questions about my loyalty and where I have been.  I couldn't
help but feel that through all their questioning that I felt like
a Coalition prisoner right before they get set on torturing me, I
wouldn't want to feel that way ever again.  When I told them who
I was their face seemed to lighten a little.  The King asked me
to stay for awhile, and document what I saw happening in his
town.  Even though I wanted to go to the western coast, my old
investigator inside me got the better of me and I agreed.  My
visits around town lead me to the conclusion that the Gromek view
themselves as the savior of Earth, and that the Coalition is
trying to destroy the Earth, an all life on it.  The Gromek are a
little over confident, they feel given enough time they could
defeat the Coalition.  Sadly I feel that the Gromek are a
misguided lot.  I tried to make them understand the vast
resources the Coalition has, and that if the Coalition wanted to
they could crush this town within a blink of an eye.  They would
hear none of it.  I think most citizens realize this and are
always looking over their shoulder waiting for the Coalition to
appear just over the horizon, an end their security.  I am told
their is another town called Bismark about 150 miles west of
here, and since it is on my way to the coast, I plan on stopping
there.  I can hardly wait, for it is said that Bismark is a
beautiful city where humans and D-bee's get along peacefully too.

Hello again, I am currently writing this letter in a luxurious 4
room suite located in Bismark's finest hotel, thanks to the city
council.  I know I shouldn't of accepted this room, but hey an
old girl needs a vacation every now and then.  The council has
given me many guided tours throughout the city in the last week. 
Everything I see is clean, even the garbage is clean!  I have
seen many beautiful homes and shops this past week.  It feels
like the town has opened up its heart just for me, it feels like
one long party.  I can't help but get the feeling that something
is missing from all this niceties, I don't know maybe its me,
maybe I'm not used to people feeling good about themselves for
once.  I can't shake this feeling so I have decided to sneak out
tomorrow morning and go on my own personal tour.

Hello there, I finally figured out what was missing in this town. 
It was the poor downtrodden people that make a city complete. 
Every city has got them, but it seemed this one didn't.  As I
told you two days ago I planned to go on my own secret tour, and
well I did.  What I saw shocked me, it took me awhile to find it,
I had found the bad part of town.  This part of town was dirty
and unkempt.  Buildings were decaying and crumbling, there was
litter and refuse scattered on all of the streets and sidewalks. 
It seemed these were the forgotten people, an indeed they were! 
When I asked the town council about these people they denied
their existence!  Here the people lived day to day hoping to find
a meal in the refuse that littered the streets, and if finding
food wasn't hard enough the people had to worry about gangs that
wandered the streets beating and killing people for whatever
meager possessions they had.  My heart goes out to those people. 
Also their was another strange thing about this town, their was
almost no magic whatsoever.  The one magic shop I did manage to
find was meager at best.  It seems the citizens are afraid of
magic, this could be the weak point in Bismark's armor.  For if
the Coalition ever decided to attack, Bismark would need all help
they could get.  Both Bismark and Lazarus have rather high
technology level for such small towns, but they cannot compete
against the Coalitions raw numbers.  I fear that eventually when
the Coalition gets around to it, these D-Bee sympathizers will be
exterminated.  Finally another thing that puzzles me, how could
these two towns have such high levels of technology.  Bismark has
advanced medical treatment along with a very good communication
network.  Lazarus has advanced weapon technology.  Nothing they
did or said suggested that they developed or found this
technology.  When I asked Bismark's council I was told they got
their weapons from  Lazarus, and the medicine was always here. 
Later that day, one of the council members approached me.  I
remember seeing his face during the meeting but he never said
anything,  he just observed.  He told me his name was Texder
Worthington and that he was a Techno-Wizard!  At last, finally
somebody that was skilled in the art of magic.  He made me
promise never to tell anybody in Bismark what he was or what he
was about to say.  Of course I agreed to his deal.  Texder told
me that both towns are secretly being supplied by a man named
McCoy.  McCoy sets up a contact in a city and deliver his goods
to that contact, who would then secretly release the goods to the
open market.  The funny thing is that both towns governments are
unaware of any of this.  They are told it was captured goods or
found items.  But in most cases they are told they are goods from
a neighboring town.  I tried to get him to explain more, but he
would say no more.  I can't help but get the feeling that he
knows more than he is saying.  I would've investigated for this
McCoy person myself, but I had to get to the west coast before
winter.  Two things puzzle me about North Dakota, one who is this
McCoy and how has he acquired this technology, and two there is
something strange going on in the Badlands, I have heard too many
tales of horror of this place, there has to be something there. 
Still people enter into the Badlands in search of gold, never to
be seen again, while others come out but are in some ways dead
already.  I hope to investigate North Dakota further on my trip
back.  See you soon
                                                           Erin
Tarn
Lands
The Badlands
From all outside appearances the badlands looks the same as it
was in Pre-Rift time.  It is still dry and desolate with little
or no growth.  The land was carved out from ancient rivers.  Most
people stay away from the Badlands, their are rumors that a clan
of Faerie Folk have taken up residency in the carved out rocks. 
Recently a new rumor has been spreading across North Dakota, like
a fire across a dry prairie.  According to rumor an old miner
from pre-rift days went into the Badlands in search of gold. 
After a couple of years the man found the mother load. 
Unfortunately all he had was a mule to carry out the gold, so he
only carried out a small percentage.  Before he could return to
get the rest of the gold, he died of an illness.  So to this day
people are still trying to find the gold mine.  At least 1,000
expeditions have gone into the badlands searching for gold.  Most
of the adventurers have not returned.  The people that are able
to return have a distant look in their eyes, and walk clumsily
like they are not watching where they are going.  Kind of like a
person who saw something so horrific that they went into shock
and still hasn't come out yet.  Even though people don't comeback
it hasn't stopped people from going into the badlands.  People
are willing to risk their lives just so it might be easier later
on in life.

*Truth about Badlands*
There are indeed faerie folk living in the Badlands.  They are
delighted about all these new visitors, they are so much fun to
play with.  There are roughly 30,000 faerie folk living in the
badlands.  The rumor about the gold is somewhat false, there is
indeed a gold mine out there somewhere, but a supernatural
intelligence called Arpita started the rumors.  It uses the gold
to lure people into the badlands where it captures them an turns
them into his minions.  Currently Arpita has 10,000 minions. 90%
of his minions are located in the 
Badlands while the rest are scattered throughout North America,
one famous one is located in Lazlo where it sells trips into the
Badlands.  Right now Arpita is working in secrecy, it will not
try to do anything that might reveal itself to the outside world,
especially the Coalition.  Another danger, unknown to the rest of
the world that is in the Badlands is the Inuit.  The Inuits are
dead Indians who were buried on sacred ground and their graves
were disturbed.  They are doomed forever to eternal restlessness
never leaving this plane of existence.  Some of the Inuits take
their revenge on anyone who happens to come by, while
others try to help travelers avoid the Supernatural Intelligence,
the faerie folk, and other dangers.  Also their are some Inuits
who pretend that they are helping but in reality are leading them
to the Supernatural Intelligence.  Also unknown to the outside is
a group of ghosts who call themselves the Seventh Cavalry.  They
are lead by a general with long wavy blonde hair.  They roam the
Badlands forever patrolling, keeping out invaders (anyone inside
the badlands is viewed as a invader), and fighting any Inuit they
see.  The two groups of ghosts are mortal enemies.  They fight
each other on sight.  The Seventh Cavalry ride atop of black
horse that skin appears to be rotting away.  The Cavalry were
tattered blue uniforms with a blue duster.  They carry what looks
like Pre-Rift rifles and pistols.
Number of Faerie Folk
               70% common Faerie
               10% Brownie
                5% Bogies
                5% Night-elves
                5% Silver Bells
                5% Others

Carimine Forest
This Forest is a mysterious place.  It is said that gigantic
insects run amuck in this place.  Even though these rumors are
widespread, there is no actual evidence of this.  The forest is
not dangerous in fact it is relatively peaceful.  The forest is
almost totally void of supernatural monsters and D-bee's.  The
forest is sparsely populated by humans though, due to the near
impossibility of farming in the forest have kept their numbers
down too.  For some strange reason the trees in the forest are
mega-damage creatures.  It is very expensive to cut the trees
down and to make them into useful lumber.

*Truth about Carimine Forest*
The reason why their is an absence of supernatural life in the
forest is because of the presence of the Xiticix in the town of
Xaxxle.  They have successfully managed to drive out most
creatures.  The reasons why the trees are mega-damage is unknown. 
Some say that a Millennium Tree grows somewhere inside the
forest, and it has affect its neighboring trees.  This reason is
doubtful though, due to the lack of ley lines in the area. 
Others say that these trees aren't regular trees but instead are
similar trees that originated from a similar dimension. 
Oak-450 M.D. Main Body   A branch is
Pine-300 M.D. Main Body  about 10 M.D.
Spruce-280 M.D. Main Body     for all trees
If the tree is cut down it loses its mega-damage properties, and
it becomes regular wood (S.D.C.).

River Plains 
This area is the cradle of civilization in North Dakota.  It is
here that McCoyville and Bismark rose from the ashes to become
major players in North Dakota.  The plains are the surrounding
area around North Dakota's major river known simply as "The
River".  This area is very fertile due to the seasonal rains and
flooding, the area is home to 75% of the former states
agriculture.  It is here where you will most often encounter an
Agriculturist going about doing his business.  The plains consist
of both humanity and D-bee's.

North Dakota Average Temperature
          Badlands  River Plains       Carimine   degrees
Fahrenheit
January        4                22                2 
April               45               60                58
June          104               75                80
September      93               64                60                   
 
December       10               28                24

North Dakota Average Precipitation      
          Badlands  River Plains        Carimine     inches
January         3                5                          5
April                2                10                 6
June            1                8           12
September       .5               4                             
30
December        2                5            7

North Dakota Major Cities
Population of all of North Dakota-
     2.3 million Humans
     750,000 Elves
     75,000 Gromek
     1.2 million Others

Major Cities Population-
     Bismark-400,000 Humans, 300,000 Elves, 40,000 D-bees
     Guardian-50,000 Humans, and 5,000 Dog-boys and Psi-Stalkers
     McCoyville-10,000 Humans, 1,000 Elves, 500 Gromek, and 5,000
D-Bees
     Lazarus-20,000 Humans, 1,000 Elves, 8,000 Gromek, and
100,000 D-bees

Descriptions
Bismark-This city is actually located 50 miles northeast of the
original city.  This city is a haven for humans and D-bees alike. 
The town is run by a group of elected officials called the
Council, which is voted in every 3 years.  The biggest building
in the town is 10 stories high.  Technology level is early 21st
Century.  While communication is good inside the town it is
virtually impossible to send a message to someone outside of town
without having to deliver it yourself, or use magic.  The people
of Bismark work hard to keep their city in good shape. 
Vandalizing carries a stiff fine with a possible two years in
prison.  Their main trading partner is Lazarus.  Bismark trades
medicine, foodstuff, and raw materials to Lazarus, in return
Lazarus gives weapons, armor, and ammunition.  These two cities
have had a trade agreement for the last 10 years.  Bismark
specializes in medicine, on almost any block you will find some
sort of medical treatment area.  While they can perform
cybernetic and bionic surgery, they don't do it often.  It is
frowned upon by the citizens, they prefer to remain natural and
unaltered if they can help it.  The citizens are
unaware that the reason for their safety is McCoyville located
200 miles north of Bismark.  When traveling through Bismark you
will find many varieties of shops and restaurants, but their are
virtually no magic shops located in Bismark you will have to look
hard and long to find one and when you do find one it will be
small with inexpensive trinkets.  Located in Bismark is a poor
section that is kept hidden to most people, in it contains almost
anything money can buy.  Gangs rule the area with little or no
police force to protect the people.  

Guardian-This is a Coalition base put their after an assault on
McCoyville.  While they think that McCoyville has been destroyed,
if they were ever to find out that it still exists they would
send millions of troops into North Dakota to annihilate the town
once and for all.  Most Coalition soldiers view Guardian as a
punishment due to the relative lack of any action compared to
other bases.  Indeed their have been no major skirmishes since
the Battle of McCoyville 8 years ago.  Emperor Prosek does have
many plans to conquer North Dakota, he views that it is easier to
attack the Xiticix from two fronts instead of one.  But right now
other matters currently occupies the military's time and men.  

Lazarus-This little town is extremely militaristic.  It cannot
support itself, it must trade with neighboring towns for
supplies.  The Gromek are the ruling class of Lazarus.  The other
races are subservient to the Gromek, including humans.  The
reason for this is that with the Coalition so close, D-bees and
humans need security so they are willing to be ruled by the
Gromek so that they will be safe.  The Gromek have plans of
attacking the Guardian outpost, but for now they are still
preparing for this.  Unfortunately the Gromek underestimate the
power of the Coalition.  The Guardian outpost could easily crush
Lazarus if they wanted to, but currently their orders tell them
to stay put.

McCoyville-Once this town was a prosperous city with over a
million inhabitants.  The city was run by a body-fixer named Jim
McCoy.  At the time McCoy was unaware of the evils of the
Coalition.  McCoy entered into a trade agreement with Chi-Town. 
McCoy gave them medicine an advanced electronic equipment.  The
Coalition wanted more and more at lower prices, when McCoy tried
to break off the trade agreement, Prosek threatened to attack
McCoyville.  McCoy was forced to keep the trade agreement.  All
was well for awhile, but something went wrong.  Somebody tried to
kill Prosek, they wrongly accused McCoy of sponsoring the attack. 
They declared war on McCoy.  The Coalition sent two armored
divisions to annihilate McCoyville.  McCoy and the townspeople
fought bravely, and were keeping the Coalition from taking over
the city.  McCoy knew that the Coalition would never give up, and
that his own supplies were dwindling. The citizens slowly
retreated to the center of the town where McCoy's main factory
was.  The Coalition had 
them pinned down inside the factory, soon they would have to
surrender, victory was theirs.  The first indication that
something was wrong was when a huge power laser beam 300ft in
diameter shot toward the sky, vaporizing anything in its path. 
This action confused the Coalitions commander, for they could not
understand why McCoy didn't aim it at them.  About 20 minutes
later the citizens inside the factory stopped firing.  The
Coalition commander ordered the invasion of the factory to
commence.  That is when all hell broke loose, the factory
exploded taking most of the Coalition troops and town with it. 
When reinforcements arrived there were only 20 soldiers left
alive, and all of them badly injured.  There were no signs of the
citizens anywhere to be found.  Coalition scientists found the
area to be bathed in high level radiation and stated that the
inhabitants if any left could not possibly survive for very long. 
Unknown to the Coalition was that for the last 25 years McCoy and
his brothers had been building a space station.  On the last day
of the attack the station was capable of supporting life.  It
took all the nuclear power they had but they were able to fire
the huge super laser into space to clear away a path through the
debris and satellites.  Using modified Behemoths with booster
rockets, McCoy was able to launch his citizens into space. 
McCoys brother who is a Shifter was able to open a rift that
opened into the station, which allowed even more people to get to
the station.  When all of the citizens were out of the factory
McCoy ignited the salvaged nuclear bombs that McCoy found in an
old ruined town called Omaha.  The nuclear blast took out the
upper levels of the factory, and most of the town.  What the
Coalition didn't know was that the majority of the factory was
located deep underground, it was able to escape the blast
relatively unharmed.  McCoy returned to Earth and repaired the
damage to the lower levels and reopened the factory.  This time
though, it was to be used to finish the space station.  To this
day the only people that live in McCoyville are located deep
underground, and are only there to work in the factory.  Recently
in the last year McCoy began to reassert himself in North Dakota. 
He quietly started to sell weapons and equipment to towns and
small
cities that had enough money.  McCoy does not plan on relocating
back on Earth, the space station is his permanent home.

Minor Cities in North Dakota
Town population-
Minot-2,000 humans and 200 D-bees
Ft. Yates-4,000 humans and 1,000 D-bees
Arena-3,000 D-bees, 100 humans, and 250 Gromek
New Town-1,000 humans and 600 d-bees
Xaxxle-500 Xiticix
Fariton-600 humans and 300 D-bees?

Descriptions
Minot-This city survived the Rifts relatively intact, only to be
destroyed by roving band of D-bees.  Some former inhabitants
decide to stay and rebuild their city.  Minot is a farming town,
they trade their crops for weapons from Lazarus.  Minotens are
weary of strangers, they distrust any D-bee, and will run them
out of town.  The only d-bees in town are slaves who work in the
fields.  Any d-bee who is captured or commits a crime (it is very
easy for a d-bee to commit a crime in this town), will be sent to
the fields to work for life.  These people are not evil, they are
just scared they will lose their homes again.  They feel this is
the only way to survive. Ft. Yates-This city also survived intact
during the Rifts.  This city is an aging military power in North
Dakota.  Right after the Rifts and about 150 years
afterwards Ft. Yates controlled all of North Dakota.  But they
were slow in developing new technology, and passed in the arms
race.  Their empire slowly started to crumble until all they
controlled was their own city.  The citizens still view
themselves as the rulers of North Dakota.  Their military
contains mostly upgraded B-52's and aged Glitter Boys(60% of
armor gone).  The city is also crumbling due to the years of
neglect an infighting.  The town is ruled by the Council of
Generals who is lead by the Grand Marshal.  80% of the government
officials are corrupt.  When the Council makes laws they apply to
all of North
Dakota even though the rest of North Dakota might not be aware of
this.  Ft. Yates still has roving police still wandering the land
handing out punishment and fines to all lawbreakers.

Arena-This town started out a small outpost for the Gromek, but
soon other D-bee's found out about the outpost and fled there,
hoping to find security.  The Gromek don't mind these people as
long as they pay taxes, in return they protect the D-bees from
outside dangers.  The town is totally without any laws.  It is
survival of the fittest inside this town.  As long as they don't
bother the Gromek they can do whatever they want.  The only
humans in this town are slaves to the d-bees.  Their is no
organization in the planning of the town.  Wherever you want to
build you can, in fact you will see houses on top of older
houses in some crowded areas.  Even the houses don't look
similar, each one is different and varied depending on the
persons race.  

New Town-This town was first settled by Ft. Yates back in the
height of its power.  Since then though they have grown fiercely
independent.  They work hard to be totally independent of
everyone else.  If asked to join any group or federation of
cities they will not accept under any condition.  Even if faced
with certain death if they don't join, they would still do it
alone.  The town is largely an agriculture society not much in
the way of industry or trade.  The weapons they use are handed
down from father to son to son and so on.  It is not uncommon for
a person to use a 200 year old laser rifle.  
Xaxxle-This is the farthest west Xiticix has ever been. 
Currently no other city is aware of the Xiticix.  If allowed to
get a foothold in North Dakota, they might never be able to get
them out.  Luckily the colony is pretty small and does not
contain a queen yet.  The Xiticix will try to keep their location
secret for as long as they can, meaning no prisoners whatsoever
not even as slaves.

Fariton-Their is a huge energy dome surrounding the entire town
and surrounding fields.  This dome is bluish clear, and can take
up to 2,000 M.D. and can regenerate at 1D6*10 M.D.C. a round. 
Somehow the inhabitants can get out of the dome without shutting
it off the dome.  No outsider has ever been able to get inside
the dome, or if they had they've never came out to talk about it. 
No one knows for sure who inhabits the town, most people think
humans live inside the dome, along with a few d-bees.

Arms and Equipment
Note:  The following prices are North Dakota price, that is if
you want to buy a rifle in North Dakota use the listed price, but
if you are outside of North Dakota the price will be doubled to
quadrupled.

The following McCoy Ind. weapons fall under different
classifications, and they are as follows:            # then
letters-Means it is a rifle and the letter is the version
          Letter than #-It is a pistol and the # is version
          Letter, #, letter-It is a specialty weapon
          MC-this is a special interest weapon or novelty weapon
          HP-Weapon built for giants, robots, and Power Armors
          
25a Laser Rifle
This was McCoy Ind. first attempt at a rifle.  Rather big and
bulky and a little outdated.  But its reliability and payload
help make up for it.
Weight: 25lbs
Mega-Damage: 4D6
Rate of Fire: Same as attacks, can only fire one round at a time
Payload: 20 shot E-clip
Range: 1,000 feet
Cost: 2,000 credits

A1 Laser Pistol
This was there first attempt at an energy pistol, it too is a
little outdated.
Weight: 10lbs
Mega-Damage: 2D4
Rate of Fire: Same as Attacks
Payload: 6 shot E-clip
Cost: 5,000 credits

25b Laser Rifle
This is an updated version of the old rifle.  Lighter, smaller,
better, damage, and firing rate made this one of there biggest
seller.
Weight: 20lbs
Mega-Damage: 4D6+6
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 2,000 feet
Cost: 3,000 credits

30a Laser Rifle
This is a pirated version of the Wilk's 457
Weight: 9lbs
Mega-Damage: 8D6
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 2,000 feet
Cost: 8,000 credits

B2 Laser Pistol
This pistol was an embarrassment for McCoy Ind.  It came out the
same year as the Triax pump pistol.  It was expected to be a big
seller for McCoy Ind.  A million were made in anticipation but it
was a flop.  You will still see them around because they are so
cheap to buy.
Weight: 9lbs
Mega-Damage: 2D6
Rate of Fire: Same as Attacks
Range: 800 feet
Payload: 8 shot E-clip
Cost: 200 credits

M1A Plasma Shell
This rifle is more like a grenade launcher.  If fires canisters
of plasma exploding on impact.
Weight: 23lbs fully loaded
Mega-Damage: 6D6+3  Blast radius is 5 feet
Rate of Fire: Can fire two in one attack
Payload: 8 canisters
Range: 500 feet
Cost: 9,000 credits

200a Laser Rifle 
This is a major advancement for McCoy Ind.  The technology used
to make this is 5 years ahead of the rest.  Rumor has it it was
developed by a huge computer in Washington, or from an unknown
space station.
Weight: 7lbs
Mega-Damage: 1D8*10
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 8,000 feet, +2 to strike
Payload: 40 shot E-clip
Cost: 25,000 credits

C1 Pulse Pistol
This pistol was made in response to the people of North Dakota's
rising concerns of the Coalitions increasing military actions in
North Dakota.  The main advantages is it is cheap and reliable.
Weight: 6lbs
Mega-Damage: 3D6
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 900 feet
Payload: 12 shot E-clip
Cost: 950 credits

C5 Pulse Pistol
After many modifications an upgrades this is the best "C" version
pistol available.  Slightly more expensive than the rest though.
Weight: 5lbs
Mega-Damage: 4D6+2
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 1,200 feet
Payload: 10 shot E-clip
Cost: 1,100 credits

100a Laser Rifle
This rifle was made after the 200a came out.  It does not take
advantage of the advanced technology.
Weight: 18lbs
Mega-Damage: 5D6
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 2,300 feet
Payload: 20 shot E-clip
Cost: 9,000 credits

MC-1 "Pacifier"
This was made in an attempt to disable enemies peacefully.  It
fires sonic waves in the attempt to knock opponent unconscious. 
Only problem is that sound filters negate this weapon.
Weight: 12lbs
Damage: Victim roll vs. coma/death if fails they are knocked
unconscious for 1D4 melees, if they pass they only receive -3 to
parry, dodge, strike, and int.
Rate of Fire: Same as attacks
Range: 200 feet
Payload: 10 shot that has to recharge once used for 2 rounds
Cost: 2,000 credits

HP-1 Gatling Gun
This gun is meant for robots, PA, and planes.  It works the same
way as the Pre-Rifts version does.
Weight: 200 lbs
Mega-Damage: 1D6*10 a blast of 20 rounds.  Each slug does 1D6
M.D.  There is a 10% chance that a slug will penetrate armor.
Rate of Fire: Bursts of 20 rounds per attack
Range: 3,000 feet
Payload: 300 rounds
Cost: 20,000 credits

HP-1 Laser Rifle
This is basically a normal rifle only enlarged
Weight: 75lbs
Mega-Damage: 1D4*10+5
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 2,000 feet
Payload: 50 shot E-clip
Cost: 15,000 credits

M2A Anti-Air
This is like a rocket launcher.  The weapon can shoot down planes
at high altitudes with effective accuracy due to its advanced
targeting system.
Weight: 25lbs
Mega-Damage: 2D6*10+10
Rate of Fire: 1 every two attacks
Range: 35,000 feet,  +3 to strike
Payload: 1,  the missile is an advanced mini-missile made only by
McCoy Ind.  Can fire normal mini-missile but range and damage is
normal.
Cost: 15,000 credits
Missile Cost: 800 credits per missile

MC-2 "Bugger"
This weapon was developed when an insect were plaguing North
Dakota, causing widespread famine and disease.  It was found that
all insects share a common gene.  McCoy Ind. developed a mist
that mutates this gene killing the insect in the process.
Weight: 15lbs
Damage: None, if human is shot without armor it will irritate the
skin causing a
rash.  Mist Radius-20 feet
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 75 feet
Payload: 10 canisters 
Cost: 6,000 credits
NOTE: While it is known to kill insects, it is not known what
effect this would have on insectoid D-bees like the Xiticix.

M2A "Plopper"
This is a grenade launcher shotgun.  It fires special made
grenades made by McCoy Ind.  It got its nickname from the sound
it makes when fired.  
Weight: 12lbs
Mega-Damage: 4D6 for Frag grenade 5ft. radius or 6D6 for plasma
grenade 3ft. rad
Rate of Fire: Same as attacks
Range: 400 feet
Payload: Single load or a speed loader-3 shot
Cost: 10,000 credits
Speed loader cost 3,000 credits and grenades cost 300 credits

MC-3 "Splasher"
This is not a gun but instead a specially made bullet.  The
bullet is hollowed out and then filled with water.  On impact the
casing shatters releasing the water.  The advantages of this is
better range and velocity than a squirt gun, and can be used in
S.D.C. automatic weapons.  The disadvantage is if it is hot
outside the water will evaporate.  Works best in automatic
weapons one bullet will not kill a Vampire, it will just make it
madder.
Weight: 8 ounces
Damage to Vampires: 2D6 hit points per bullet
S.D.C. Damage: Varies.  Bullets come in various sizes to fit
different guns.
Cost: 20 credits per bullet or 100 credits per clip of 15 or 800
credits for a belt of 500 rounds

D2 Pulse Pistol
This pistol is basically a "C" version pistol except it takes
advantage of  McCoy Ind.  advanced technology.
Weight: 3lbs
Mega-Damage: 7D6+6
Rate of Fire: Standard
Range: 1,200 feet  +2 to strike
Payload: 15 shot E-clip
Cost: 20,000 credits

MC-4 Jave
This is a vibrospear.  Main advantages is it is quieter than a
gun an in skilled hands can be thrown with great accuracy.
Weight: 7lbs
Mega-Damage: 3D6+2
Range: When thrown 300 feet.  Spear is 6ft. long.  If PC has W.P.
spear is +2 to strike.
Cost: 2,000 credits

MC-5 Laser Scalpel
This laser scalpel is the size of a pen.  It has many varying
settings below one S.D.C., but with a push of a small button the
laser scalpel flares up to an M.D.C. laser knife.  At this
setting the energy cell can last for 2 attacks before it dies
out.  This weapon is good for assassins or espionage agents. The
knife setting does 4D6 M.D.
Maximum Range for all settings is 6 inches

HP-3 "Rail Splitter"
This is McCoy Ind. only attempt at a rail gun to date.
Weight: 250lbs
Mega-Damage: burst of 50 rounds does 1D6*10, one round does 1D4
M.D.
Range: 4,250 feet
Payload: 400 round drum
Cost: 50,000 credits

HP-4 "Flechette"
The flechette is a dart that planes release at high altitude,
these darts can actually teat a man apart.  They were used in WWI
for awhile, now in Rifts time McCoy Ind. has brought them back
but with a new twist, they now are vibrodarts.  The darts are
housed in an 8' by 4' box holding 200 darts that effect a 1,000
square feet.  These can be used instead of bombs.
Weight: 12 ounces per dart
Mega-Damage: 1D6 each dart.  Roll a d20 and that is how many hit
you.  Only way to dodge is to get out of the area before they hit
the ground.  The darts are to small to be shot at with accuracy,
shooting wild may hit a couple though.
Payload: 200 darts per casing
Cost: 5,000 credits per casing

HP-5 Cluster Missile
This is a good anti-infantry weapon, also it is good against
armored vehicles, grounded planes, runways, and infrastructure. 
The missile is unguided it cannot dodge or make turns.  As it is
flying by it discharges disc shaped grenades.  It can be used by
anything that can fire short range missiles.  Mega-Damage: 1D4
M.D. per disc, will do 3D4*10 to a 50ft. radius, the missile does
have a warhead that does 1D4*10 M.D. to a 20ft. radius once all
the discs have been ejected the warhead will explode sending
shrapnel hurtling to the
ground.  Total blast diameter is 400 feet.
M.D.C.: 5
Range: 500 feet
Cost: 1,000 credits per missile

MC-6 "Boomer"
This actually a vibroboomerang.  This can be deadly in the hands
of a expert, it can also be deadly to a untrained thrower.
Weight: 2lbs
Mega-Damage: 3D6
Range: 300 feet
Cost: 1,000 credits
If have W.P. Boomerang than have +2 to strike

MC-7 Cane Gun
This gun is popular with old people, it gives them security at
all times.  Also assassins and espionage agents favor this gun
too.  The gun is lightweight with the outside made of wood, the
barrel located inside the cane is made of a light plastic
compound.  The rounds and firing mechanism is located in the
handle.  To reload you simply take the handle off and replace it
with another handle.  The cane is custom made to the size of the
owner.
Weight: 5lbs
Mega-Damage: 1D6 per bullet
Rate of Fire: Same as attacks
Range: 100 feet
Payload: 5 bullets
Cost: 12,000 credits

MC-8 Vibropick
This vibroblade is not meant to be a weapon.  It is thinner than
a toothpick and about the same length.  It is used to slice locks
off doors, vaults, and so on.  
Mega-Damage: 1D4
Cost: 2,000 credits

ARMOR
McCoy Ind. armors names are based on the old state names.  As of
now there are 20 different types of body armor.  The following
are the most popular selections All armor is full environmental
suits and comes with everything listed in the Rifts RPG under the
armor section

The Illinois
This is the best protection McCoy Ind. has to offer.  The armor
is lightweight using secret metal technology.  It also takes
advantage of an exoskeleton that lightens the weight the user has
to endure.
M.D.C.: 80
Weight user feels: 10lbs
Excellent Mobility-No penalties, also PC can lift 1.5 times their
PS and can run two times longer than normal.
Cost: 50,000 credits
Weapon Systems
1. Mini-Missile Launcher-There is a mini missile placed on each
side of the helmet.  While  
    this may be a little scary for a user it serves two purposes.
         1. It allows your head to aim and guide the missile kind
of like a TOW missile but   
             without the cable.  +2 to strike
         2. If character is hit in the head which will probably
result in death, the missiles will   
             explode, destroying the armor.  Thus not allowing
others to study the Armor.  Can    
             use any missile type.

The Rhode Island
This is a lightly armored inexpensive model.  It has two
searchlights mounted on the helmet instead of missiles.
M.D.C.: 40
Weight: 12lbs
Good Mobility: -5% to prowl
Cost: 20,000 credits

The Texas
This armor looks slightly like a bull.  It has what looks like to
be two 2 foot tall horns jutting out of the helmet.  In actuality
these horns are sensor antennas.  This armor comes with radar,
infrared and ultraviolet optics, and thermo-imaging.  It also has
a radio.  You can use all these features through a HUD put
located in the visor.  The antennas have 100 M.D.C. each
M.D.C.: 50
Weight: 18lbs
Poor Mobility: -15% to prowl
Cost: 28,000 credits

The Arkansas
This armor is a close second to the Illinois in protection. 
instead of missiles though it has two head mounted laser, 2D6
M.D. each.  +2 to strike.
M.D.C.: 70
Weight: 18lbs
Excellent Mobility: -2% to prowl
Cost: 45,000 credits
It also has a retractable vibroclaw located in the right arm.

The Florida
This is a medium armored suit. It can be used in space, on land,
or in the water thanks largely to the tiny strategically placed
thrusters.  In space it can fly at 45 mph, in water 15 mph, and
on land it doubles your speed, and you can run twice as far.  The
thrusters are powered by a nuclear battery located in the lower
back area.  The only problem is that the thrusters have to be
cleaned at least once a week or the thrusters get clogged causing
a malfunction.  There is a 1-10% per week that the thrusters will
explode causing 1D6 M.D. to the occupant if the thrusters are not
cleaned.  If it doesn't explode than it just doesn't function
till cleaned.
M.D.C.: 55
Weight: 19lbs
Excellent Mobility: No penalties
Cost: 35,000 credits

The Michigan
This armor is probably the most heavily armed armor McCoy Ind.
has to offer.  The only drawback is that to keep the weight down
they had to sacrifice armor.  They even put an exoskeleton to
lighten the load (no bonuses).  But don't underestimate this
armor, it may be small but it packs a punch.
M.D.C.: 35
Weight user feels: 40lbs
Poor Mobility: -15% to prowl
Cost: 60,000 credits
Weapon Systems
1.  Mini-Missiles: same as the Illinois
2.  Retractable vibroclaws on each arm
3.  High-intensity laser: This is located on top of the helmet,
3D6 M.D.     Range: 600 feet
4.  Grenade Launcher: Located on the sidearm of the right arm. 
Holds 6 grenades 5D6   
     M.D. Range: 500 feet

Equipment
McCoy Ind. makes a wide variety of equipment that you can find in
the Rifts RPG.  Along with those items they also make these
items:

Flying Video Camera
Camera is placed in an aerodynamically shaped container that
resemble a very small helicopter(1 foot long).  The camera can
record for three hours, or it can relay what it sees instantly
back to the operator who has to be within 100 miles If camera is
in record mode it can fly 500 miles away and still return to
user.  One of the advantages of the relay mode is that the user
can fly the camera himself, changing courses whenever he wants. 
In record mode it follows set directions loaded in before
takeoff.  This camera comes with a joystick and Foot Pedals.
Maximum Speed: 120 mph
5 year nuclear battery
Cost: 10,000 credits

Lazer Bather
This is an energy field that is no bigger than a door.  You walk
through the field and it cleans you.  The scientific explanation
is this: The field comes within a millionth of an inch of your
skin, vaporizing anything it passes (even clothes if you forget
to take them off).   The Lazer Bather comes with special caps to
wear to protect your hair.  The only problem is that fiendish
assassins have been known to tamper with the Bather, and when
someone walks through they are vaporized.  They also use it has a
trap due to the almost invisible 
appearance of the field(1-10% chance of detecting in full light,
or 1-40% chance of detecting in the dark.  The Bather is usually
installed in the bathroom.  
Cost: 20,000 credits
NOTE: Doctors like to use these to sterilize themselves in an
instant.

Papersuits
These suits are made of tough paper fibers.  The suits are made
for those PC's who are constantly in armor or power armor.  It is
not big and bulky, it is quick to get into an you don't have to
worry about what to wear (nobody is going to notice what you wear
when you are inside armor).  The suit is not recommended for
daily wear, for after all it is still paper, it also is
unattractive.  The suits are a one piece suit that comes in many
different colors.
Cost: pack of 20 is 200 credits

Lancer Plane
Name: McCoy Enterprises Lancer PF-1a
Crew: 2(pilot and a gunner)both are Lancer pilots
Passengers: none
Cargo: only a small area where can store vital equipment(guns so
forth).
Wingspan: 80 feet
Length: 60 feet
Speed:  Mach 2.3 is maximum speed, while Mach 1.2 is cruising
speed
Engines: Nuclear engine with life expectancy 5 years with
continous being at 1 year.
Range: Indefinetly, but usually no longer 20 hours in the sky. 
The pilot will probably    
 become to tired after to safely pilot the plane.
Altitude: Outer Atmospere
Pilot Positions:  The gunner sits right behind the nose, while
the pilot is in the middle of plane.

M.D.C. BY LOCATION
GUNNERY COCKPIT-50
PILOT COCKPIT-75
WING(1)-300
MAIN ENGINES(4)-60 EACH
SECONDARY ENGINES(5)-35 EACH
FINS(4 TWO ON WING AND TWO ON MAIN BODY)-30 EACH
MAIN BODY-500
SENSORS-45
MAIN GUN-50
MISSILE PODS(4)-20 EACH
BOMB PODS(4)-5 EACH
LANDING GEAR-10

WEAPON SYSTEMS:
1. Missile Pods(optional)-The fighter can install missile pods on
special missions or if   
    wanting extra firepower.  Each pod can hold 16 mini-missiles,
or 6 short range, or 2   
    medium range, or the entire plane can hold 2 long range
missiles.

2. Bomb Pods(optional)-These can be on at the same time as the
missile pods.  You can   
    use these for high altitude bombing or if you don't need
precision bombing.  Each pod   
    holds 4 bombs that are released all that the same time. 
    Bomb choices are:
               Conventional-1D4*10 each 20ft radius
               Napalm-1D4*10 each 30ft radius
               *Experimental-1D6*10+10 each 25ft radius*
               Cluster-1D4*10 each 50ft radius
               Nuclear-2D6*10 each 100ft radius can only hold one
for each pod
*Experimental bombs have not been fully tested so consquently
there are still a few  problems.  If doing a complicated manuever
or flying at high altitude roll a D20 and on a roll of 20 the
bombs all ignite, do damage accordingly.  When dropping the bombs
roll a D10 and on a roll of 0, 1D4 bombs are a dud.  Roll this
for each pod.

3. Mini-missile Launchers(3)-these are enternally placed
launchers. 2 are on the wing and 1 is placed directly beneath the
cockpit.  Pick three mini-missiles of choice.

4. High Intensity Lasers(2)-These are placed on the nose they can
only fire directly ahead.      
    The pilot has control of these guns.     
     1D4*10 each burst
     Range-3,000ft.
     Ammo-2000 shots total a burs contains 30 shots.
     If a pilot has enough skill(rank of Sergeant than he is
capable of firing any amount of  
     rounds from 1 to 30 in an attack.  each roud is 1D4 M.D.

5. Gatling Gun-This is an updated version of the old gun.  This
placed internally    
     underneath the gun. cockpit.  It can only fire directly
ahead.  Pilot has control of this   
     gun.
     6D6 per single shot
     2D6*10 per burst of 10 shots
     Ammo-1,000 rounds
     Range-3,500ft

6. Foil Flares-These are ejected out the back in order to confuse
radars and missiles.  Total   
    of 30 flares on board. If releasing 1 flare there is a 25%
chance.  
                2 flares-35%
         3 flares-50%
         4 flares-60%
         5 flares-75%
         6 flares-85%
         7 flares-98%
   The flares stay effective for 1D4 rounds before they disperse

7. Sensor System Note:
   1. ThermoImager
   2. Enhanced Radar
   3. Infrared and Ultraviolet optics
   4. Advanced targeting system

HTH Combat-Not possible

Special Bonus-+1 to dodge at cruising speed
           +2 to dodge past Mach 1.5

McCoy RJ-2 Power Armor
This armor is very simple in design, it was one of McCoy's first
attempts.  The RJ-2 major advantages is that it is light and
fast, but it had to sacrifice armaments and armor to achieve
this.  Its major purpose was recon and espionage, it is quiet and
efficient.  The wings extend outwards from the engine, when not
in flight mode the wings slide back into the engine like a phone
antennae.  The wings can open out in one attack, and pilot can
fly during the same attack.  The choice of colors are blue,
black, and red.

Model Type: RJ-2
Class: Light Reconnaissance and Espionage
Crew: One, can seat no passengers.
M.D.C. By Location
     Concealed Mini-Missile Launcher (1; back)-15
     Arms-30
     Legs-60
     Head-9
     Hands (2)-5 each
     Rear Jets-85
     Wings (2)-40
     Optics and Sensor Pod (head)-12
     Main Body-100
Speed
Runninng: Can run up to speeds of 70 mph, pilot usually last
double his PE.
Flying: Can fly at speeds up to 300 mph, range is about 70 miles
before pilot has to let the engine cool for one hour.  Maximum
altitude is 700 feet.
Statistical Data
Height: 8 feet
Width: 4 feet
Weight: 1 tons 
Physical Strength: Equal to a PS 35
Cargo: can only carry his personal possessions.
Power Source: Nuclear, average energy life five years.
Black Market Source: 2 millions

Weapon Systems
1. Rear Mini-Missile Launcher (1): Concealed on the top of the
engine is three mini-missiles of choice.  The pilot can fire one,
two, or three missiles at a time.  The pilot gets no bonuses to
strike though.  Pilot can fire in a 90 degree arc.

2. Can carry any hand held weapon.  Usually equipped with the
200a.

3. Hand to Hand Combat: Rather than use a weapon. the pilot can
engage in mega-damage hand to hand combat.  The armors fully
articulare hands can strike just like a human punch.
Bonuses & Damage from RJ-2 Combat Training:
Restrained Punch-1D6*10 S.D.C.
Full Strength Punch-2D6 M.D.
Power Punch-4D6 M.D. (counts as two attacks)
Crush with Hands-1D6 M.D.
Kick-3D6 M.D.
Leap Kick-5D6 M.D.
Body Flip/Throw-1D4 M.D.
Body Block/Ram-1D8 M.D.
+2 to strike
+4 to parry and dodge
+2 to roll with impact
+2 to pull punch
Three attacks per melee in addition to the pilots attacks.
5. Sensor System Note: The RJ-2 has full optical systems
including laser targeting, telescopic, passive nightvision,
thermo-imaging, infrared, ultraviolet, and polarization.  Plus
all features common to power armor.
Sensor bonuses: +2 to strike and plus +2 to dodge.

Coalition MX-34 Raider
The Coalition built this power armor after their disastoruous
victory at McCoyville.  The raider is small for a power armor,
but that is an advantage for this armor was built for urban
combat.  This armor easily walk down streets and alleys.  Also
the power armor can work effectively inside regular buildings, so
the Coalition uses this armor for security also inside the
Guarduan base.  The armor only has three fixed weapons, there are
areas where you can put other weapons on for a short period of
time.  
Model Type: MX-34
Class: Light Combat and Security
Crew: One, can seat no passengers
M.D.C. by Location
     Mini-Missile Launcher (1; right shoulder)-10
     Forearm Laser (1; left arm)-15
     Concealed Vibrosword(1; right arm)-10
     Arms(2)-30
     Hands(2; fully articulate)-8
     Legs(2)-65
     Head-15
     Optics(head)-10
     Booster Jet(optional; back)-50
     Main Body-120
Speed
Running: Without booster pack can run 35 mph for over three hours
before it has to cool down.  If the booster jet is attached then
armor can run 80 mph. but for only two hours before it has to
cool off.  In both cases cool off time is 45 minutes, if you
don't cool off the engine then it will overheat and explode 20
minutes later causing 1D6*10 M.D.
Flying: Not possible without booster jet.  With the booster jet
the armor has a limited flight capability.  It can fly at 100 mph
with a range of 500 feet before it touches ground again, it must
leap off the ground each to continue flight.  Armor can keep up
this flight for three hours.
Statistical Data
Height: 7 feet
Width: 3 feet
Weight: 1,200 pounds
Physical Strength: Equal to a PS 35
Cargo: Can only can carry pilots personal possessions
Power Source: Nuclear, average lifespan two years
Black Market Cost: 1 million credits, extremely hard to find. 
Most MX-34 are stationed at Guardian.

Weapon Systems
1. Mini-Missile Launcher-Can hold up to eight mini-missiles of
choice.  Can fire up to three at a time.

2. Forearm Laser-This is an experimental Coalition design that
has not been thoroughly tested yet.  So their is a 10% chance of
failure in which case the laser blows up causing 1D4*10 M.D. to a
5 feet area.
Range: 1,000 feet
Mega-Damage: 1D4*10 per shot, or 2D6*10 per multiple burst of
five.  Both count as one attack.
Payload: E-clip of 50 shots

3. Concealed Vibrosword: This is located in the right arm, it is
triggered by a push of a button located in the right hand of the
armor.
Mega-Damage-5D6

4. The armor has three additional hard points on which you can
place weapons of virtually any type and design.  The only
drawback is that you will have to sacrifice speed to do this.

5. Also the armor can operate any hand held weapons of choice.

6. Hand to Hand Combat
+1 to strike
+4 to dodge and parry
+5 to dodge in flight
+1 to roll with impact
+2 to pull punch
Restrained Punch-8D6 S.D.C.
Punch-1D6 M.D.
Power punch-2D6 M.D. counts as two attacks
Kick-2D6 M.D.
Leap Kick-4D6 M.D.
Ram-2D6 M.D.
Flip/Throw-2D6 M.D.

5. Sensor Systems Note: The same as the RJ-2

McCoy JM-90 Shiva
This power armor takes advantage of the futuristic technology
that McCoy possess.
It is light and fast with heavy armament and armor.  This is his
most versatile design yet. 
Shiva means destroyer in the Indian language.
Model Type: JM-90
Class: Multi-Purpose weapon
Crew: One, cannot hold passengers
M.D.C. by location
     Concealed Mini-missile launcher(2; in both legs)-50
     Power Laser(left shoulder)-75
     Particle Beam(1; In palm of right hand)-10
     Head Lasers(4)-5 each
     Head lights(2)-2 each
     Optics(back)-50
     Arms(2)-75
     Hands(2)-50
     Legs(2)-180
     Head-50
     Main Body-400
Speed
Running-Can run at 80 mph for over five hour before it has two
cool of for a half hour.
Flight-Not possible
Leaping-Can leap into the air up to 75 feet
Statistical Data
Height-12 feet
Width-5 feet
Weight-3 tons
Physical Strength: Equal to a PS 60
Power Source: Unknown, average lifespan 40 years
Black Market Cost-20 million extremely hard to find.

Weapon Systems
1. Concealed Mini-missile launcher(2)-Each leg can hold up to 15
mini-missile of choice.
Can fire up to 4 missiles at a time in each leg.

2. Particle Beam: This beam is in the palm of the right hand.  It
can do lots of damage if given enough time.
Range-2,000 feet
Mega-Damage: 1D6 per shot.  Or pilot can opt to let the particle
beam energize in which case he can only fire the mini-missile or
a hand held weapon.  Letting it charge for an attack double the
damage, letting it charge for two attacks allows it to do
quadruple its power, and if you let it recharge for three rounds
it can double 10 times the regular damage. 
After three rounds damage is still 10 times regular.
Payload-Unlimited shots, hooked up to the engine.

3. Power Laser: This is mounted on the left shoulder it is
capable of huge amounts of damage.
Range: 5,000 Feet
Mega-Damage: 7D6 per shot, or 2D6*10 per multiple burst of 5
shots.
Payload: Unlimited, hooked up to the engine.

4. Head Laser(4): These four lasers fire as one. They have a
firing arc of 180 degrees.
Range: 1,000 feet
Mega-Damage: Each laser does 1D4 M.D., combined laser damage is
4D6 
Payload: Unlimited, hooked up to the engine.

5. Hand to Hand Combat: With training has three attacks not
including pilots attack.
+4 to strike
+5 to dodge and parry
+6 to dodge while leaping
+3 to roll with impact
+4 to pull punch
Restrained Punch-2D6 M.D.
Punch-5D6 M.D.
Power Punch-1D6*10 M.D. counts as two attacks
Kick-7D6 M.D.
Leap Kick-2D6*10 M.D.
Body Flip/Throw-1D6 M.D.
Body Block/Ram-5D6 M.D.

6. Sensor Systems Note-Same as RJ-2, Bonuses: +3 to strike and
dodge

Military might of the Cities
Bismark:
15,000 soldiers
*150 SAMAS
40 McCoy Combat Robots
30 UltiMax
*5 Death Heads
2 Glitter Boys

Lazarus:
30,000 soldiers
*400 SAMAS
50 McCoy Combat Robots
35 X-500 Forager
20 X-535 Hunter
*10 Death Head
*6 Spider-Skull Walker
5 Glitter Boys

Guardian:
50,000 soldiers
1,000 SAMAS
500 Sky Cycles
200 UAR-1 Enforcers
100 Death Heads
50 Spider-Skull Walkers
1,000 Combat Robots
2,000 Dog-Boys
3,000 Psi-Stalkers

McCoyville:
2,500 Soldiers
5,000 McCoy Combat Robots
5 Ulti-Max
+4 Modified Behemoth
*UAR-1 Enforcer
1 Glitter Boy

Ft. Yates
34 Glitter Boys
150 Modified B-52's
200 M1A1-Abrahams Main Battle Tanks
45 Apache Helicopters
10 B-2 Stealth Bombers

* These item were stolen or captured by McCoy and then traded to
towns, Coalition are   
   not aware of this.
+ See Vehicle section

New Skills
Farming
Category: Domestic
This skill is the techniques used to farm properly.  You know how
to till your your land, when to leave it fallow.  Also know
rudimentary knowledge in herbicides, and fertilizer. You know
which ones work but not why.  Can estimate when it is going to
rain and so on.
Base Skill 30%+4% per level

Urban Survival
Category: Espionage
This skill is like the Wilderness Survival except it is for
cities,  this skill differs from streetwise in the fact that you
know more than the illegal parts of the city is, you know how to
survive on minimal amounts of credits, know where the best
restaurants,  where cops are, how the city is run.  Basically
this skill is like if you live in the city all your life you know
where things are, you know how people are going to react to you
or how you look.
Base Skill 35%+5% per level

Camouflage
Category: Espionage
This is the skill of knowing how to camouflage yourself in all
types of areas.  You know how to mix into your surroundings very
well.
Base Skill 25%+4% per level

Combat: Horseback Riding
Category: Pilot Skills
Required: Horsemanship
This trains the character on how to charge properly while on top
of a horse.  
How to shoot accurately with a gun and son.
+2 to strike with an Ancient W.P.
+1 to strike with Modern W.P.
+2 to parry and dodge while on top of horse
At 3rd level add 1 additional attack while on horse
At 9th level add one attack while on horse

Rural Medicine
Category: Medicine
The person who has this skill knows old wives tales on how to
cure ailments, such things as to cure drunkenness is to drink
coffee, and things like that.  Most of the tales do nothing to
help the patient sometimes making the condition worse, but
sometimes they do work.

LANCER COMBAT TRAINING:
Category: Pilot
+5 to dodge
One additional attack
One additional attack at rank of Captain
One additional attack at rank of Rogue Major
This skills allows the pilot to be able to perform well in
combat, any pilot that tries to fly the Lancer in combat will be
in for a real surprise.  Lose one attack -6 to dodge

Computer Keyboarding
Category: Technical
This skill allows the PC to type at a keyboard at a good speed. 
5 times their I.Q. without making a mistake, can write a 6 times
I.Q. at 80% mistake free.  This skill is good for typing programs
and transfer of data.

 Sign Language
Category: Technical
This is the skill of using your hands to communicate with others
as long as they have the skill too.  Knows the alphabet and has a
very good understanding of the language.
Base Skill 55%+5% per level

Physics
Category: Science
Requirements: Advanced Mathematics and Literacy.
A natural science covering matter, energy and their mutual
relations Characters who have this has a good understanding of
Nanotechnology.

W.P. Spear

W.P. Boomerang

Races and O.C.C.'s
Inuit R.C.C.
Ghost Buffalo NPC
Agriculturist R.C.C.
Death Dragon R.C.C.
Lancer Pilot O.C.C.
Silver Ranger O.C.C.
Rapid Flies NPC
CyberRangers O.C.C.
CyberWarrior O.C.C.
Technocrat O.C.C.
Lightning Dragon R.C.C.
North Dakotan Cyberknight O.C.C.
Brahmagupta Dragon R.C.C.
Coalition Commando O.C.C.
Seventh Cavalrymen R.C.C.
Death Horse NPC
Old Time Doctor O.C.C.
Aiite Master NPC
Aiite Worker R.C.C.
Aiite Commandant R.C.C.
Inuit R.C.C.

IQ: 4D6  ME: 3D6+2  MA: 3D6  PS: 3D6+3  PP: 3D6  PE: 4D6  PB: 3D6 
Spd: 3D6

Inuits are a  American Indian nature spirits who were known to
the native Americans, worshipped in some areas, feared in others. 
They dress in tribal outfits, with feathers and tattoos being a
common sight.  Inuits are highly conservation and environmentally
oriented.  
Whenever they use their abilities their skin glows green (except
for invisibility).  See Seventh Calvary men for more details on
death and dying.

Natural Abilities
1. Drain-The character gains strength by draining other persons
life force.  It costs 10 ISP   
    to use.  Victim rolls against psionics an if fails loses up
to 50 ISP and 5D6   
    S.D.C./M.D.C. depending on the creature.  The Inuit gains
what the victim loses, except   
    that the S.D.C. turns into M.D.C.  The Inuit can only use
this power on one person at a  
    time.  He must be touching the victims skin.  He can only use
this power 10 times in a   
    24 hour period.

2. Invisibility at will-Same as the invisibility: Superior spell

3. Infection-This is the power that lets the Inuit create other
Inuits.  The Inuit bites the   
    victims neck an if victims fails a save at 18 he will slowly
transform into a Inuit.  He will 
    get all the Bonuses of the Inuit.  Reroll    ME, PS, and PE,
the rest stay the same.  Also 
    victim becomes a M.D.C. creature.  The Inuit can only do this
during a full moon, and   
    has to be on a Ley line or Nexus Point.

4. Flaming Tomahawk-1D6*10 MDC.  This tomahawk is made of
ectoplasm manipulated
    by the Inuit.  It gets it flaming appearance due to its fiery
red color and the fact that it   
    feels like it burns your skin when it hits you.  Inuit can
throw it up to 300 feet and can 
    still return to them.  Only the Inuit can use the weapon, any
one else who touches it will 
    be inflicted with full damage.  Any Inuit will know it cannot
use the weapon and won't    
    try to pick it up.

M.D.C./Hit Points: 3D6*10
Alignment: Any
ISP: 1D6*10   Shaman: 1D10*10
PPE: 2D4

O.C.C. Skills
Wilderness Survival +20%
Land Nav +15%
Hunting +25%
Track Animals +10%
Skin and Prepare Animals +15%
W.P. Archery
W.P. Blunt
W.P. Knife
Cooking +20%
Fishing +5%
Sewing +5%

Other Skills: None

Secondary Skills-Select 3 skills from Domestic, Physical, and
Wilderness category.  Select 1 skill at level 4, 9, and 13.

Combat Bonus: +35% to prowl, +2 to strike with ancient weapon, -3
to strike with modern weapon, +1 to parry and dodge, +1 to
initiative.

Psionic Powers
Roll a D100, on a roll of 1 your character is a shaman-Knows 5 of
the following Powers: BIO-REGENERATION, PSYCHIC SURGERY, PSYCHIC
DIAGNOSIS, SIXTH SENSE, SENSE EVIL, SENSE MAGIC, INCREASED
HEALING, RAIN, GROWTH, OR SEE THE INVISIBLE.  On a roll other
than 1, character is a minor psychic know 1D4 from physical
category.  Shaman learn 2 new powers at level 3, 7, 9, 11, 13,
and 15, can choose from any category except super.  +2D6 ISP per
level for both.

Spells-Neither know any

Equipment-A long bow with 20 arrows, Hatchet-2D6 SDC, 2 ancient
weapons of choice, set of Indian clothes, a pipe, backpack, 2 fur
coats, and a  bowie knife 

Money: None to start with

Cybernetics and Bionics: Cannot receive either.


Created by Mike Best  Edited by Sean Satterlee
CyberRangers
80 years ago the Cyberknights appeared.  A mere 20 years ago the
CyberRanger appeared.  A sort of super wilderness scout, the
rangers are the stealth and senses of the Cyber  Trilogy.  They
are silent and can make normal Wilderness Scouts seem as natural
as Chi-Town
Training: The CyberRanger have probably the hardest training of
any of the three Cybers.  Their training begins at age 10, and
continues until age 20.  They must be taught by a CyberRanger of
a at least 7th level.  Word has it Lord Coake himself encourage
this occupation and helped in its separation from the
Cyberknights to form it's own branch.

Psionic Powers
Roll a d10, on a 1-8 the character has no psionics (with the
exception of the choices provided later), only 1D6 ISP, and is
considered a minor psionic.  On a 9 or 10 the character may
choose five powers from the following list at level 1, and 2 more
at 3rd and 7th level.  The character is considered a Major
Psionic.  BIO-REGENERATION, DEADEN PAIN, HEALING TOUCH, INCREASED
HEALING, ALTER AURA,
IMP. TO COLD, IMP. TO FIRE, IMP. TO POISON/TOXIN, RESIST FATIGUE,
RESIST HUNGER, RESIST THIRST, SEE THE INVISIBLE, SENSE EVIL,
SENSE MAGIC, OR SIXTH SENSE.

Alignment: Any good or selfish
Attribute Requirements:  IQ:9 ME: 12 PS:10 PP:6 PE: 14 Spd: 7
Special Bonuses: add 2D6 to PE and Spd, add 2D4 to ME, 1D6 to PS
and PP.  Add 1
attack per melee.  Add +3 to parry and dodge, and add 4D6 to
S.D.C.

PPE: 4D4

O.C.C. Skills
Language: 3 of choice at 95%
Literacy: Choose 1 from the above languages at 85%
Cook +5%
Fishing +15%
Sewing +5%
Detect Ambush +20%
Detect Concealment + 20%
Intelligence +15%
Tracking +20%
Wilderness Survival +30*
First Aid +10%
Holistic Medicine +15%
Athletics: General 
Climbing +20%
Prowl +25%
Horsemanship +15%
Math: Basic +10%
Lore: Demons and Monsters
W.P. Choose 3 ancients of choice
W.P. Choose 2 modern of choice
Hunting
Identify Plants and Fruits +30%
Track Animals +20%
HTH: Expert (Can be upped to Martial Arts at the cost of 2 Other
Skills)

Other Skills: Choose 5 from the following list.  Select 1 more at
level 4, 5, 7, 9, 12, and 15.
Communication: Only Radio:Basic +5%
Domestic: Any
Espionage: Any +10%
Military: Any
Physical: Any +10%
Pilot: Any but Robots and PA, tanks, and APC's
Pilot Related: Any
Rogue: Any but Hacking
Science: Biology or Botany +10%
Technical: Any except Comp Op and Comp Pr +10%
W.P.: Any
Wilderness: Any +15%

Secondary Skills: Choose 4 from the above list without bonuses
though.

Equipment: One set of light or medium armor.  One energy rifle
with 3 E-clips.  Vibroknife, combat fatigues and boots.  Blue
jeans and T-shirt, backpack, canteen, 1 protein healing salve. 
Do not like vehicles and will try to avoid riding animals (they
like animals and don't like forcing them to work).

Money: 1D4*25 credits

Cybernetics and Bionics: Cannot receive them whatsoever

Code of Honor:  Protect innocent animals and follow the Code
listed Rifts RPG under the Cyberknight.

Natural Abilities
Choose two from the following five choices
1. Psi-Bow-A bow that shoots mega-damage arrows up to 500 feet
away.  This is like a   
    Psi-Sword in that it can be used indefinitely and cost no
ISP.  It does 1D4 mega-damage    
    at level one, add a d4 every other level.  Effective range is 
  500 feet.  If character   
    chooses this he automatically receives W.P. Archery.  

2. M.D.C. being!!!  Character becomes a M.D.C. creature with
3D6+1 M.D.C.  Add      
    1D4 M.D.C. at level 3, 5, 8, and 12.  Drop any S.D.C.
bonuses.

3. Enhanced Senses-Character automatically has night vision at
200 feet, see the invisible,   
    sense magic, sense evil, sixth sense, see aura, and has
heightened hearing and can see as  
    well as a Crazy.

4. Super Stealth-The PC can, 3 times a day with each time lasting
2 hours, become totally   
    invisible to all methods of detection.  This means not even
See the Invisible will detect.   
    The PC cannot be heard (unless he wants to), and cannot be
smelled.  The PC can still   
    be felt and still retains his weight.

5. Enhanced Abilities-Add 2D6 to PE, 2D4 to PS, 1D6 to PP, 1D4*10
to Spd, 1D4 to        
    ME and IQ, 1D6 to Hit Points, 1D4*10 to S.D.C. (These latter
two become +2d6 to  
    M.D.C. if PC chooses Ability two).

Saving Bonuses for all CyberRangers
+2 save vs. poisons
+1 save vs. insanity, psionics, and magic
+5 save vs. horror factor


Created by Mike Best  Edited by Sean Satterlee
CyberWarrior 
About 60 years ago the Cyberwarriors were created as an offshoot
to the Cyberknights.  The CyberWarriors were similar to the
Cyberknights, but were more concerned with raw combat.  They were
also mostly unprincipled. Their numbers remained few up until
five years ago.  Their numbers since have tripled, and are still
growing.  The CyberWarrior are all good, a good comparison
between the CyberWarriors and the Cyberknight would be the
Knights of Camelot and the Rival Cavaliers.  The CyberWarriors
are a rowdy bunch who love a good scrap and never back down. 
They are nowhere near as civilized or intelligent as the
Cyberknight Training: Unlike the Cyberknights, all CyberWarrior
have to train with a high level CyberWarrior for at least two
years.  The teacher teaches them all they need to know.  This
warrior must be of at least 6th level.

Psionic Powers
Roll a d10, on a 1-9 the PC has no psionics powers but the
Psi-Axe, an has only 1D4 ISP, and is considered a minor psionic. 
On a 10 the character gets the Psi-Axe and choose 1 power from
each category except super.  ISP is 1D4*10.  +2 ISP per level,
and the character is considered a major psionic.

Alignment: Any but only .5% are evil, if evil the character loses
the Psi-Axe.
Attribute Requirements: PS: 12 PE: 11 Spd: 6
Special Bonuses: Add 1D^ to PS, PE, and Spd, add 1D4 to PP and
ME.  Add 2D4*10 
to S.D.C. and 1D6 to Hit points.  Add +1 to roll with punch and a
+5 to damage.

PPE: 4D6

NOTE: Cannot receive IQ bonus no matter what.
O.C.C. Skills
Language: 2 of choice at 80%
Radio:Basic +10%
Detect Ambush +15%
Detect Concealment +10%
Wilderness Survival +20%
First Aid +10%
Demolitions +15%
Demolitions:Disposal +15%
Body Building and Weight Lifting
Boxing 
Climbing +15%
Prowl +15%
Wrestling
Pilot: Choose 2 +10%
W.P. Axe
W.P. 2 ancient of choice
W.P. 2 modern of choice
Lore: Demons and Monsters +10%
Land Nav +15%
HTH Expert (can be changed to Martial Arts at the cost of one
Other Skill)

Other Skills: Choose 4 and an additional 2 at levels 3, 5, 7, 8,
12, and 14.
Domestic: Any +5%
Electrical: Only Basic Electronics
Espionage: Any +5%
Mechanical: Automotive only
Physical: Any +10%
Pilot: Any
Pilot Related: Any
Rogue: Any but Hacking
Science: Only Math:Basic
Technical: Any
W.P.: Any
Wilderness: Any +5%

Secondary Skills-Choose 5 skills from the above list without
bonuses.

Equipment: One set of heavy armor.  One energy rifle with 4
E-clips, a set of dress clothing, gas mask, tinted sunglasses, 2
quart canteen, 2 protein healing salves, combat fatigues and
boots.  Has no vehicle to start out with.

Money: 1D4*100 credits

Cybernetics: Starts with cyberarmor identical to the
Cyberknights, and choose one type of cyber eyes.  

Code of Honor:  Only obligation is to help innocent people.

Powers 
Psi-Axe Similar to the Psi-sword. the Psi-Axe is more powerful. 
Starting M.D.C.
is 2D6, add 1D6 at levels 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 13, and 15.  
Add a +1 to save vs. magic and horror factor.
Heals 2 times normal human speed

Role of the Cyberknights
     No one group is more honored, more loved than the
Cyberknight.  People view them as the saviors of humanity and
protector of the downtrodden (d-bee's).  Most communities will
openly aid a Cyberknight anyway they can.  When a Cyberknight
rides into town, the people forget about their fears for a little
while an enjoy life.  In fact holovids glamorize the Cyberknights
depicting them as the hero of the land, and defender of justice.  
     In truth the reason for the Cyberknights fame is because of
the Silver Rangers.  Silver Rangers are the unsung hero's  of
North Dakota.  They often travel alone, roaming the countryside,
righting wrongs.  They travel into town, solve the problem, then
leave (sort of like the Lone Ranger).  Because the Silver Rangers
don't stick around for to long the people think they were
Cyberknights, since they helped the town like a Cyberknight
should..  
     The Cyberknights in North Dakota are a little different than
the one's found roaming the land outside of Dakota.  The knights
are more aloof and more snobbish than normal.  They view
themselves as above the rest of the population,  and that people
will always need saving.  They think the people couldn't live
without the aid of the knight (for a better description think of
Derek Crownguard from the Dragonlance novels transplanted to the
Rifts Dimension).  
     The main population of Cyberknights are located in the
Gregor Monastery, this is not the famed Lord Coake monastery. 
Here the knights are trained in the ways of knighthood.  The
monastery is lead by an 11th level Cyberknight named J.T. Falcon. 
Currently Falcon is trying to assemble an army of Cyberknights . 
Right now he has 1,500
knights, and will have 4,000 more in the following year.  As soon
as Falcon has assembled enough men (roughly 10,000), he will wage
war against evil Supernatural creatures and any evil kingdom. 
Unfortunately once these foes are dispatched in North Dakota
Falcon will try to make North Dakota his kingdom.  There are only
humans in the Monastery, Falcon will not allow any non-humans to
join the ranks of Cyberknights.  Any outside Cyberknight will
feel a little out of place around these Cyberknights.  Outside
Cyberknights will not try to stop Falcon until it is too late to
do anything.

The following is different about the North Dakota Cyberknight
than the normal one found in the Rifts RPG.

1. To live- is the same
2.  Fair play- Same unless you are non-human, then the
Cyberknight will do the things he                           
would normally not do
3.  Nobility- Same as 2
4.  Valor-  Same as 2
5.  Honor- Same as 2
6.  Courtesy- Same as 2
7.  Same as 2

Silver Ranger O.C.C.
The Silver Rangers are an organization of men and women dedicated
to helping people survive the terrible plots of fiendish
characters.  The Rangers are of sort of like the Cyberknights
except the Rangers help a person or a small town, while the
knights will help an area or a big city, usually ignoring the
pleas of a single person or small town.  The Rangers are usually
very quiet, speaking only when needed to.  The Rangers carry out
their duty and leave often before they can be given thanks. 
Rangers are not in this business for glory or to make money,
instead they do their jobs because if they didn't no one else
would do it.  They will not except money from people no matter
what, instead they will accept food and lodging for the night.

Attribute Requirement: IQ: 10  PS: 11,  
Permanent Base P.P.E.: Roll 4D6

O.C.C. Skills:
Literacy +10%
Language select two of choice at 98%
Wilderness Survival +20%
Lore: Demon +5%
Horsemanship +5%
Land Navigation +5%
Pilot Select two Pilots +5%
First Aid +10%
Holistic Medicine +20%
Prowl +10%
Athletics
W.P. Ancient select 2
W.P. Modern select 3
HTH: Martial Arts  No such thing as an evil or selfish Silver
Ranger

O.C.C. Related Skills  Select 8 other skills,  at least two must
be physical, one wilderness, and one domestic.  Select two at
level three, 1 at level nine, 2 at level thirteen, and 1 at level
fifteen.

Communications: Any
Domestic: Any +10%
Electrical: Basic only
Espionage: only Detect Ambush and Concealment, and also Tracking
Mechanical: None
Medical: only Paramedic
Military: Any
Physical: Any +10%
Pilot Skills: Any +5%
Pilot Related: Any
Rogue: only streetwise and concealment
Science: only Math: Basic an Advanced
Technical: Any except Comp Pr.
W.P.: Any
Wilderness: Any +15%

Secondary Skills: Select 6 skills from the above list, but
without bonuses.

Equipment: Suit of Heavy Armor.  1 energy rifle with 3 extra
E-clips, 2 energy pistol with 6  extra E-clips, and 1 S.D.C.
handgun with 2 clips.   Backpack, canteen, binoculars, 50ft of
rope, collapsible tent and stakes, field radio, sunglasses, 
first aid kit, three week supply of  rations, and one set of
clothe

Select a vehicle as long as it is under 40,000 credits, or can
have bionic horse

Money: 1D10 credits, that's right this guy is a pauper

Cybernetics: None to start out with but can acquire some at a
later date.

Brahmagupta Dragon R.C.C.
IQ: 2D6/3D6+1    Read description for more info
ME: 2D6+5/3D6
MA: 3D6+5
PS: 4D6+5 *SUPERNATURAL STRENGTH
PP: 4D6/5D6
PE: 5D6
PB: 2D6
Spd: 8D6 Running or 70 mph flying

ISP: 1D6*10/1D6*10+20
PPE: 1D6*10
MDC/HIT POINTS: 1D3*100
Horror Factor: 14
Alignment: Any but usually anarchist or evil

In every species there is always a sect of them that the rest of
the species dislikes, i.e. the Gully Dwarves, Dark Elves, Nazi's,
and so on.  The dragons are no exception to this statement. 
Dragons look down upon the Brahmagupta due to their weak minds
and physical abilities, but you should never judge a book by its
cover.  The Brahmagupta are arguably the most powerful dragon
that have step foot on Earth.  That wasn't always the case
though,  the Brahmaguptas were the weakest dragons.  That all
changed the day the a power hungry Shifter happen to come across
their dimension.  The Brahmagupta were dying off, they weren't
able to adapt to their changing planet.  The shifter enslaved the
dragons with the promise of a new world and the power to be the
strongest dragons known to the universe.  The Shifter had come
across an ancient spell believed to be created by the Old Ones,
but the shifter doesn't know, or care.  The spell creates an
amulet that gives the shifter the powers of the wearer, and gives
the wearer power too.  Until now the Shifter couldn't find any
willing dragons (since only dragon may wear the amulet), until he
found the Brahmagupta.  Once the dragon puts on the amulet he
can't remove it unless it truly never intends to wear it again,
in which case he will lose the powers given to it by the amulet
(the powers are on the right side of slashes).  Until now their
were only 6 Brahmagupta's on Earth, but now their are over 700
Brahmagupta's that have the amulet.  
Due to the suddenness of attaining power some of the Brahmagupta
have gone insane.  These few (35) insane dragons have led people
to believe that the entire race of Brahma's are insane monsters
that love to kill.  Most armies are instructed to kill Brahma's
on sight.  The other race's of dragons are disgusted and shocked
that a dragon would actually use a humans device to gain power. 
Some dragons will actively hunt down Brahma's.

Natural Abilities
1.  Nightvision: 200 feet.  Bio-regenerate: 1D4*10 Mega-damage
every 5 minutes, with 
      amulet it's 1D6*10 every minute.  See the invisible, fire
and cold resistant

2.  Acid Breath: 3D6 M.D.

4.  Metamorphis: Same as Great horned Dragon

5.  Amulet:  The amulet increases the wearers abilities (right
side of slash), it increase speed
     by 15 mph (flying and running).  Also increases PPE by 130
and ISP by 100.  What the 
     dragons don't know is that the shifter can exert his will
over the dragon any time,           
      forcing the dragon to do what he wants.  What the shifter
does not know is that with 
      every amulet he makes a little part of himself goes into
the amulet.  So if he keeps
      making amulets he will eventually die, and with his death
all the amulets will lose their 
      power.  Also dragon acquires a few of shifter's spells due
to the Amulet.  Pick 10 of 
      the following spells:
SENSE PPE, SENSE MAGIC, TURN DEAD, TRANCE, CHAMELEON,
CONCEALMENT, SHADOW MELD, TIME SLIP, CALL LIGHTNING, CONSTRAIN
BEINGS,  SUMMON AND CONTROL CANINES, SUMMON LESSER BEINGS,
FIREBALL, LIFE DRAIN, CLOSE RIFT, CALM STORM.

R.C.C. Skills:  At first level can select 5 skills, but is
automatically literate in Dragonese (98%), and knows Basic: Math
at 98%.

Psionics:  Considered a minor psionic and knows Mind Block,
Telepathy, Sixth Sense, and See Aura.  With the Amulet dragon
becomes a Major Psionic, and knows the following:
Telekinesis (super), Psi-Sword, Alter Aura, Empathy, Object Read,
Death Trance, and Hydrokinesis.

Spells:  Knows no spells at 1st level other than the ones the
amulet gives it.  Can learn two new spells at every other level
starting at 2nd level.

Physical Description:  15 feet long
                    40 foot Wingspan
                                  8 feet tall
                    Scales are red in color, this dragon is
absolutely hornless and   
                                  clawless. 

Combat:  Punch- 2D6/5D6 M.D.
        Tail- 4D6/1D6*10 M.D.
        Bite- 3D6/1D6*10 M.D.
        Body block- 1D6*10/2D6*10 M.D.

Insanity:  Roll a D20 if you get a 20 roll twice on psychosis
table (p19 of Rifts RPG).

Coalition Commando
Attribute Requirement: IQ: 15, PS: 12, PP: 18
Attribute Bonuses:  1D4 to PS, PP, and PE

Due to the disaster of the McCoy raid in which two divisions were
wiped out, the Coalition hired a group of analyst to figure out
what went wrong with the invasion.  After many months they
deduced that the enemy was given enough time to prepare for a
large assault, if the Coalition had sent in a small group of
specialized soldiers it would have been possible for the
Coalition to of won that battle without that high of a casualty
rate.  Emperor Prosek agreed to this theory, an immediately set
up a training program to created commandos.  The soldiers were
chosen from the finest available personnel, no matter how much
political clout you had, if you weren't the best  you weren't
going to get in.  
     The commandos go where no other could go without a 1,000
other soldiers backing him up.  They are assigned the most
dangerous task, and are often not given a lot of support in
succeeding.  Yet somehow they do, the commandos have the least
casualties out of all the divisions.  In their off time they
often act immature or get into a lot of fights.  To outsiders
this appears to be that these people are just plain brutes, but
that is not true.
That is the only way they know how to let out some steam after a
very dangerous mission.
While on a mission they lose that immature attitude and become
downright serious, not allowing mistakes to happen.

O.C.C. Skills
Sniper
Tracking +10%
Wilderness Survival +15%
Urban Survival +15%
Camouflage +5%
Holistic Medicine +5%
Math: Basic and Advanced +15%
First Aid +5%
Pick Locks +10%
Cryptography +10%
Radio: Basic +15%
Radio: Scrambler +15%
Surveillance +20%
Literacy +25%
Select two languages at 98%
HTH Martial Arts or Assassin
W.P. Select two Ancient 
W.P. Select four Modern

Other Skills  Select 15 skills, but 4 must be physical, 1 ancient
W.P., and 3 pilots.
Communications: Any +5%
Domestic:  Any
Espionage: Any +10%
Electrical: Only Basic
Mechanical: only automotive mechanic
Medical: only paramedic
Military: Any +15%
Physical: Any +10%
Pilot: Any +10%
Pilot Related: Any
Rogue: Only Comp Hacking, Concealment, and Streetwise
Science: None
Technical: Only Comp  Op and Lore: Demon
W.P.: Any

Secondary Skills: Select 8 skills from the above list but no
bonuses

Standard Equipment:  1 energy rifle with 2 E-clips, 2 energy
pistols with 2 clips, and 3 ancient weapons.  Any armor of
choice.  Signal flares, survival knife, pocket computer, air
filter and gas mask, walkie-talkie, canteen, combat boots,
camouflage fatigues.
Equipment available upon assignment:  Any rifle or pistol (M.D.C.
or S.D.C.), extra E-clips, hover-cycle, some explosives, extra
rations, and a compass.  Will not be given any vehicle besides
hover-cycle no matter what, commando is suppose to rely on his
own merit not with the aid of technology, besides it harder to
conceal an APC or Death Head, than it is a hover-cycle.

Money:   Salary is 4,000 credits a month.  Captain or higher is
5,000 credits

Cybernetics:  None to start out with

Seventh Calvary men R.C.C.
IQ: 3D6
ME: 3D6+2
MA: 3D6+1
PS: 4D6  *Supernatural Strength
PP: 4D6
PE: 5D6
PB: 2D6
Spd: 3D6
ISP: 1D6*10 +4 per level
PPE: 1D6*10  permanent base
MDC: 2D6*10 +10 per level
Alignment: Any 90% are anarchist or evil

Flesh looks like it is rotting away in some places, you can see
bone in other places.  They wear what appears to be late 19th
century American military uniforms.  The clothing looks tattered,
but somehow it manages to stay on.  The Calvary men were killed
while fighting Indians, and buried by an Indian Shaman who had
put a curse on them.  When the rifts erupted, it triggered the
curse, they are doomed to forever walk this land never dying, but
always in pain.  Forever doing their duty ridding Indians and
guarding their land.  Consequently they will attack Indians on
sight and attack anyone in the Badlands besides another Calvary
men.  
     Both the Inuit and Calvary men have human emotions, and act
pretty much like humans would.  The Inuits live in tribes with a
leader an a Shaman, while the Calvary men will in outpost lead by
a Commander.  Both races will venture out of the Badlands if they
want to.  Also both races cannot die but when their hit points
are reduced  to 0 they go into a stasis until they regenerate all
their hit points, not before.  When a Inuit or Calvary men loses
double their hit points they die, but not in the same sense that
a human would die.  They are sucked into a different plane of
existence where their is no substance, just endless darkness. 
The soul is in constant pain, but the character will never find
the source of the pain.  The character can still think and has
thoughts but he can't move or use any powers, he is just their. 
If a character goes to this plane their is no way of coming back,
pick new character.

Natural Abilities 
1.  Flaming Saber:  2D6 M.D. plus 1D6 M.D. every other level. 
The saber when activated    
     by the Calvary men (SC), flames up but oddly does not give
off heat or light.  Only the 
     SC can handle or activate the saber.  He can activate it at
will.  If someone else besides
     the SC handles the saber they are engulfed in flames
inflicting 2D6 M.D. per round 
     held

2.  Nightvision 100ft.  Bio-regenerate at 6D6 M.D. every 5
minutes.

3.  Limited Invulnerability:  Only laser and electricity do
damage, and lasers do only   
     half-damage.  Nothing else will hurt the SC.  Magic and
Psionics do full damage.

Spells:  Knows none and cannot learn any.
Psionics:  Select two physical at level one, and select three
from sensitive at level six.
Height:  Same as human.

R.C.C. Skills:
Horsemanship 98%
Wilderness Survival 98%
Select two domestics at 98%
Select two wilderness at 98%
Select one W.P. any of choice
Language and Literacy: American 98%

Equipment:  A Death Horse, saddle, canteen, tent, bed roll,
binoculars, select one S.D.C. side arm, and one S.D.C. rifle, and
camping gear.    

Money:  None to start out with.
Cybernetics: Can never receive them.

Old Time Doctor O.C.C.
Attribute Requirement:  IQ: 12  ME: 11 PE: 13
Attribute Bonus:  IQ: +1

This doctor is similar to the ones you would see in the old west
in the late 19th century.  They can't do much in the way of
healing, but they will make you feel comfortable.  Most Old Time
Doctors know rudimentary skills in stitches , pulling teeth,
remedies for stomach aches, and stuff like that.  Most Old Time
Doctors don't stay in one place for to long, they often accompany
caravans or travelers.  In a way they are a like a soldier who
knows some first aid skills.

O.C.C. Skills
First Aid +20%
Holistic Medicine +5%
Rural Medicine +15%            
Pilot: Hover +5%
Radio: Basic +5%
Wilderness Survival +10%
Language: Select two languages +20%
Literacy: Select one of the above choices at 98%
Lore: Demon +5%
W.P. Ancient Select one
W.P. Modern Select two

O.C.C. Related Skills
Select 5 other skills.  Select 2 at level three, one at level
five, eight, ten, and thirteen.
Communications: none
Domestic: Any +5%
Electrical: only Basic
Espionage: only Detect Ambush and Detect Concealment
Mechanical: none
Medical:  none
Military: none
Physical: Any
Pilot Skills: Any
Pilot Related Skills: Any
Rogue: none
Science: Any
Technical: Any
W.P.: Any
Wilderness: Any

Secondary Skills:  Select six from the above categories but with
no bonuses.

Equipment:  A medical kit, first aid kit, extra bandages,
canteen, backpack, fold-up tent, hat, 2 sets of clothes,
binoculars, and regular camping gear.  Select one energy rifle
with two E-clips, select two energy pistols with one E-clip each,
and select two ancient weapons.  

Money: 1D6*100 credits
Cybernetics: None to start out with.

Agriculturist R.C.C.
The Agriculturist is sort of like the African Rain Maker, he
wanders around the countryside aiding farmers.  He helps keep
away drought and pestilence too.  If a farmer see's or hears 
that a  Agriculturist is near his farm, he will do anything to
get him to visit his farm and help his crop.  Most Agriculturists
are kind and will do the services for a small fee, but still
there are others that are selfish or evil and demand high sums of
money or other valuables.
The Agriculturist is the modern day Johnny Appleseed, spreading
seeds inhospitable land.
Nothing gives greater joy than watching a sapling grow for a
Agriculturist.  About 99% of the Agriculturist are vegetarians
preferring not to eat meat, but the excess of plants. 
Consequently most Agriculturist are very passive not killing
animals, and are always trying to solve a conflict without
sorting to violence.  This means that the Agriculturist will
always be the last one to fire.

Attribute Requirement: None, however a high I.Q. and M.E. is
suggested.
P.P.E. Permanent Base: 2D6
I.S.P.:  2D6*10 + M.E.
Alignment: 75% are of good alignment, 15% of selfish, and 10% of
evil alignment

Skills:
Can speak and write American adequately (80%), select one
piloting skill and domestic skill.  Also select 6 other skills
from the categories physical, domestic, wilderness, pilot, and
W.P with each having a 5% bonus.  Select three secondary with no
bonuses from the list from above.  Character starts out a HTH
Basic but can be changed to HTH Expert at the cost of two other
skills.

Standard Equipment:  Assorted bag of seeds, canteen, sunglasses,
any light armor, one energy rifle with two E-clips, various small
farming tools, backpack, tent and stakes, bowie knife, and
regular camping gear.

Vehicle is limited to bionic horse or hovercraft.

Money: 2D6*100 credits
Cybernetics: None character dislikes cybernetics.

Powers of the Agriculturist:
At first level character knows: SIXTH SENSE, SEE AURA, MIND
BLOCK, GROWTH, and ANIMAL EMPATHY.  Also select a power from each
category except Super.
At second level select two from each category except Super.  From
third and above select two from any category except Super.

Aiites (pronounced A-ites) Workers R.C.C.
Horror Factor: 10
Alignment: Most are evil highest alignment is anarchist
Attributes: IQ: 2D6+4, ME: 3D6, MA: 3D6, PS: 4D6, PP: 4D6, PE:
5D6, PB: 2D6, 
Spd: 5D6   Character is considered supernatural
ISP: 1D4*10
PPE: 4D6
Hit Points: 2D6*10+20  add 20 hit points per level

Natural Abilities
1.  Nightvision- 150ft
2.  Invulnerability- Weapons do no damage only Magic and Psionic
do full damage.
3.  Cannot be turned into a Vampire
4.  Bio-regenerate- 1D4*10 hit points per melee
5.  Create Rod- See description that follows after Aiite Master.

Flaws
1.  Gold does double damage on Aiite
2.  Never can leave this dimension
3.  Cannot operate complicated machinery, such as robots,
vehicles, power armors, even if
     the character was a pilot before being turned into a Aiite.

The Aiite workers are the worker bees in the colony.  They do
most tasks that are not serious enough for a Commandant or
master.  The workers are the ones most likely for a caravan or 
traveler to come across.  They do possess somewhat of an
intelligence, and are capable of making decisions and tactics. 
Arpita has total control over the workers, he can enforce his
will whenever he wants and no matter how far away they are. 
Arpita knows what every worker knows and feels, Arpita can detect
if the worker is trying to betray him.
Arpita can force the worker to kill himself whenever he so
chooses.  All workers act differently, most keep their humans
traits.  Some workers try to return to normal life but they find
that Arpita will enforce his will upon them, changing the way the
act. 

Psionics:  Select three from physical category.

Skills:  Select 8 skills from Communication, Domestic,
Mechanical, Technical, Physical, Wilderness, and Piloting.

Physical Description:  Look completely human, only difference is
that their eyes glow and eerie green.  Human size in height.

Combat:  Look in Conversion Book for Damages
Bonuses: +2 to strike, parry, and dodge.  +1 to initiative, +3 to
save vs. horror factor, magic, and psionics.

Aiite Commandant R.C.C.
Horror Factor: 10
Alignment: All are Evil
IQ: 3D6, ME: 3D6, MA: 3D6+2, PS: 5D6, PP: 4D6, PE: 5D6, PB: 2D6,
Spd: 5D6
Creature considered a supernatural creature.
ISP: 2D8*10 + ME
PPE: 1D4*10
Hit Points: 3D6*10+10  +20 hit points per level

Natural Abilities
1. Nightvision- 150ft.
2. Invulnerability- Same as worker 
3. Fireball- 1D4*10 M.D. can be used once per melee
4. Bio-regenerate- 1D6*10 hit points per melee
5. Create Rod- See description that follows after Aiite Master
6. Cannot be turned into a Vampire

Flaws
1. Gold does double damage
2. Cannot leave dimension
3. Left hand appears to be rotting

Psionics:
Considered a major psionic, follow Burster R.C.C. rules on
obtaining psionics.  Also Commandant has the power to control
workers.   Add 2D6 ISP per level.

Skills
Same as Worker

The commandant are third in charge behind the Aiite Master and
Arpita.  They have normal intelligence and are capable of
complicated thought.  The commandant are chosen by infecting
strong evil humans.  Arpita still can enforce his will on the
commandant, but he rarely does it.  The commandant is usually
accompanied by at least 10 workers.  There is only one commandant
for every 1,000 workers, currently there are 10 commandants.

Physical Description: Varies, look completely human besides
rotting hand.

Aiite Master
Horror Factor: 14 in natural form
Alignment: Diabolic or Miscreant
IQ: 4D6, ME: 4D6: MA: 4D6, PS: 6D6, PP: 5D6, PE: 5D6, PB:
1D6/4D6, Spd: 6D6
Creature considered Supernatural
ISP: 4D6*10 
PPE: 1D6*10
Hit Points: 4D6*10+30  +20 hit points per level

Natural Abilities
1.  Nightvision- 200ft
2.  Invulnerability- Same as worker
3.  Communication with Arpita.  No matter where the Master is he
can always      
     communicate with Arpita.  This is different than the link
with the worker for the
     master can talk to Arpita while the worker cannot.
4.  Bio-regenerate- 1D8*10 per melee
5.  Lightning Attack- 1D8*10 can fire one once every melee
6.  Create Rod- See Description following this character.
7.  Metamorphis at will

Flaws
1. Gold does double damage
2.  Repulsion to salt

Psionics:  Considered a major psionics, use Mind Melter for
obtaining powers.  Add 1D10 ISP per level.

Spells:  At fifth level character can learn six spells through
level four. 

Skills:  Same as the Mind Melter

The Aiite Master is second-in-command to Arpita.  The master
enjoys total freedom, Arpita can enforce his will, but won't do
that.  The Aiite master is confronted by Arpita through the
Astral Plane.  Arpita offers unlimited power to the master, if
master agrees he transforms into the Aiite Master.  In return
Arpita gains a foothold into that dimension.  The master is
totally ruthless, doing whatever it takes to gain more minions. 
He will sometimes appear to be kind and offering help only to
betray you when you are at your weakest.  The master is always
accompanied by at least 60 workers.  The masters true appearance
is that of a red energy cloud.  It often times appears to be an
attractive human.
Currently the Aiite Master is known as the Elegant Man, his name
is Lyle Benz.  See NPC section for further details.

Infection
Aiites don't create other Aiites like Vampires do, instead they
have to have the Rod of Power.  The Rod of Power appears to be
made of wood.  It is about 11 inches long.  It looks like a
wooden dagger.  In actuality the Rod is part of the Aiite.  About
a month after the human becomes an Aiite, the Rod will grow out
of his back falling off about a week later.  
     The Aiite infects a person by plunging the Rod into the
chest of the victim.  The maximum damage the Rod can is 120
mega-damage.  The Rod can sense what a person is and what he is
wearing, the calculates what it would take to bust through the
humans defenses and that is how much the human will take.  The
human rolls vs. infection at a 18, if he fail he immediately
transform into an Aiite.  Reroll attributes and the characters
only retains a selected amount of skills (see character you
intend to be). 
     Since the Rod is part of the Aiite, he will automatically
know where it is no matter how far away it is.  The infection
only works when an Aiite wields the Rod, if a non-Aiite uses it
as a weapon it does 1D6 S.D.C.  The Rod only takes damage from
gold, the Rod will be destroyed when it receives  80 hit points
in damage.  If the Rod is destroyed the Aiite suffers a loss of
80 hit points, which it cannot regenerate until it grows a new
one.  The Aiite will grow a new one after a month.  Every time a
Aiite infects a person he receives 10 hit points.


Created by PlayeR2000 edited by SEAN
Technocrat O.C.C.

The Technocrats are a sort of Operator that has developed his
powers to a new level. When using their powers they become one
with the machine!  By doing this they exert more control over the
machine and are much more powerful than average pilots. They also
have the ability to make any kind of modification to their
machine making each machine one of a kind.

Requirements
I.Q.: 14, M.A.: 14

O.C.C. powers
Man Machine symbiosis: Like the weapon meld the pilot and the
machine move as one, therefore the pilot must be in a specially
designed cockpit that allows him to hook up with the machine.  
 
Telemechanics Same as psionic 10 ISP
Object read Same as psionic
Inventiveness Modification of machine 5 ISP

O.C.C. skills
Literacy American 98%
language America 98%
language any  +15%
mechanical engineer  +15
electrical engineer  +20
weapons engineer  +20
W.P. any
Pilot any two at 25%
HTH expert

Related skills  10 skills
Communications: any
Domestic: any
Wilderness: none
Physical: any except SCUBA
Electrical: any
Mechanical: any
Pilot: any
Pilot Related: any
Science: any
Rogue: none
Military: any
Espionage: any
Secondary Skills:  Select six skills from the above list, but no
bonuses.

Equipment
Tool kit (industrial), 15ft wire, pen light, light MDC armor,
notebook, a knife, tool belt, work clothes, hammer, wrench, 4
E-clips,  Select one energy  weapon and two ancient weapons.
Vehicle of your choice
100,000 dollars to modify it, this must all be used or it is
lost.
5,000 must go to  making special cockpit.

Money: 4D6*20 credits
Cybernetics:  None to start out with

ISP: 3D6x2 permanent base
PPE: 2D6 permanent base

Psionics:  Select two from this list only.
Total recall
Resist fatigue
Speed reading
Sense magic
Mind block
Summon inner strength

Death Dragon R.C.C.
I.Q.: 2D6+4
M.E.: 10D6
M.A.: 9D6
P.S.: 5D6* SUPERNATURAL STRENGTH
P.P.: 4D6
P.E.: 5D6
P.B.: ?   
Spd.: 7D6 running, 85 mph flying
I.S.P: 1D10*10
P.P.E.: 1D6*10
MEGA-DAMAGE/HIT POINTS: 1D4*100+100
HORROR FACTOR: 20
ALIGNMENT: ANY but usually selfish or evil some are good.

NATURAL ABILITIES:
1. Mesmerize-This power is sort of like the spell the Kingpriest
of Istar uses in the  
    Dragonlance Legends series.  People remember the horror and
fear of seeing the
    Dragon but won't remember the exact details of the Dragon.

2. Death Sense-The Dragon is able to sense, through the use of
P.P.E., where 
    there is going to be major amounts of deaths occurring.  This
sense tell
   exactly where or when it is going to happen or who is going to
die.  It is 
   more like a force that pulls the Dragon to the place of
oncoming death.  If
   you are a little confused about this then you should read the
book JAWS, and
   how the mammoth shark hunts.  That hunting instinct is a good
depiction of
   how this ability works.

3. Soul Trap-This is not what the rumors make it out to be. 
Instead of entrapping the soul,      
    it absorbs the released P.P.E. that creatures emanate upon
death.  This is different that  
    most other creatures that use P.P.E. to function, instead of
only using a small amount of   
    that released energy and having to use it right away, the
Dragon will store all the 
    released energy and can store for up to 2 months.  Their is a
limit to how much P.P.E.   
    the Dragon can store, the limit is 800 P.P.E.  Their is two
ways the Dragon can
    use this P.P.E.
       A. P.P.E. Discharge-This is the release of all the stored
P.P.E. at one
          time.  This discharge inflicts 1D6+10 M.D.C. to the
Dragon itself. 
          Once it leaves the Dragons body if forms an oddly
shaped 50 foot ball
          of energy that can only go in a straight line for 2,000
feet.
          1st 500ft. is 3d6*10 M.D.C. to anyone hit
       2nd 500ft. is 2D6*10 M.D.C.
       3rd 500ft. is 1d6*10 M.D.C.
       4th 500ft. is 4d6 M.D.C.
       Any creature that is not directly in the way of the ball
feel a slight
       tingly sensation.  Also any creature that feeds off P.P.E.
will feel
       stronger for 1D4 rounds, and have a bonus 1D10 M.D. to
their main body

       B. P.P.E. Withdrawal-The scales can hold the P.P.E. for up
to 2 months
       and while this the Dragon can use the P.P.E. anyway it
wishes.

   Also when a Dragon reaches 5th level it is able to manipulate
P.P.E. even 
   better than before.  It is able to mold P.P.E. into a solid
object that 
   resembles anything the Dragon wants it to look like.  The
object can walk 
   and do simple tasks.  But the creation is actually a shell of
what it is made
   to resemble, it can't talk or think, and it shall die out
after a month.
   The Dragon has total control over his own creation.  Cost to
create one is
   100 P.P.E.

4. Smoke of Anger-If the Dragon is running low on P.P.E. or
hasn't come upon 
   any deaths yet it will probably resort to this attack in order
get more 
   P.P.E.  If a character fails a roll vs. spell at -4 then they
fall into a 
   Rage, attacking anything it sees except the Dragon.  The smoke
cloud is 
   actually a very fine mist that covers a 100ft radius for 1D6
rounds.

5. Feed off P.P.E.- When people die their P.P.E. is released from
their body.
   P.P.E. is doubled at time of death.  The dragon is able to
absorb any P.P.E.
   within a 100ft radius.

FLAWS:
Death Dragons don't like ley lines or Nexus points.  This is due
to the fact that their scales overload in their attempt to absorb
all the P.P.E.  If the Dragons is to close to a ley line (500ft.)
it will eventually die.  
1st minute: Dragon is slightly dizzy -2 to strike, parry, and
dodge 
2nd minute: Burning sensation on Dragons scales
3rd minute: Pain increasing Dragon takes 1D6*10 M.D.C.
4th minute: Pain intense take 3D6*10 M.D.C. 
5th minute: Roll vs. unconsciousness take 3D10*10 M.D.C.
6th minute: Roll vs. Death take 6D10*10 M.D.C.
7th minute: Dragon explodes
If dragon dies at any stage his P.P.E. will be released at triple
the range and damage of the P.P.E. Discharge ability.  Also blast
is not in just one direction it occurs in all directions, their
is no chance to dodge this blast.

SKILLS
Same as all other Dragons, read page 98 of base book for list.

PSIONICS
Dragon considered a minor psionic due to their inability to
manipulate their powers so that they can gain powers. The powers
that they had at birth are the only ones they can have.  Pick 7
from the following list: DEADEN PAIN  DETECT PSIONICS  INDUCE
SLEEP  ALTER AURA  MIND BLOCK  TELEKINESIS ASTRAL PROJECTION 
EMPATHY  CLAIRVOYANCE  MIND BLOCK  SEE AURA  SENSE MAGIC SIXTH
SENSE  TELEPATHY  EMPATHIC TRANSMISSION  HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.

SPELLS
At 1st level knows all 1st and 2nd level spells along with the
following spells: Energy Bolt, Paralysis/lesser, Blind, Fire
Bolt, Life Drain, Call Lightning, Agony, and Fire Ball.
At 2nd level can learn 10 new spells from 3rd and 4th level
At 4th level can learn 5 new spells from 3rd through 5th level
At 6th level can learn 3 new spells from 3rd through 7th level
At 8th level can learn 3 new spells from 3rd through 8th level
At 10th level can learn 2 new spells from 3rd through 9th level
11th through 15th level can 1 learn new spell between 3rd and
12th level.
Every level the Dragon will gain 3D6 P.P.E.
Initially Dragon will learn spell that will help it disable
creatures.  It will branch out once it achieves higher levels.
NOTE:  The Dragon ABSOLUTELY cannot learn any teleport spells or
any spells that
       has to do with rifts or Dimensional travel, this also
includes pocket and
       so on.

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Dragon is all black when fully charged with the exception of a
white skull shaped blotch on its chest.  When either empty or not
totally charged the color of dragon will be different shades of
gray. 
LENGTH: 25ft.
HEIGHT: 15ft.
WEIGHT: 6 tons.
WINGSPAN: 70ft.

PHYSICAL ATTACKS: BITE- 1D6*10 M.D.C.
            PUNCH- 5D6 M.D.C.
            TAIL- 2D6*10 M.D.C.
            STOMP- 6D6 M.D.C.
                   BODY RAM- 2D6*10 M.D.C.
            CLAWS- 6D6 M.D.C.
Dragon considered an expert in HTH combat with +1 to strike and
+2 to parry and
dodge.

Average Life Span: 10,000 years.  Achieves adulthood at 1,000
years of age.
Allies: None
Enemies:  Fellow Dragon, besides that nothing is considered a
threat.

BACKGROUND
The Death Dragons are the one of the most rarest and mysterious
of all Dragons known to mankind.  They have been seen only a few
times in the last 5 years.  When Death Dragons (DD for short) are
seen it is usually over a battlefield or over a town that will be
destroyed.  That is DD got their names, they seem to be
harbingers of destruction, wherever they went their seem to be
death.  This made DD look like evil beasts that kill people and
suck their soul into a Hellish-like imprisonment, and they were
only released to be eaten by the DD.
These rumors are somewhat true, but due to peoples fear have
blown out of proportion.  It is not entirely impossible to hear
tales of villages leaving at the sight or rumor of a DD nearby. 
If you managed to ever talk to a Dragon about DD, they seem
indifferent and won't answer your question.

WHERE THE DEATH DRAGONS CAME FROM
The DD's are from the unknown planet Dragii.  The planet is
nearing extinction due to the overpopulation of DD's. 
Fortunately for the DD's (and unfortunately for the shifter) a
shifter happened to come across Dragii through a mistake a create
rift spell.  The DD's killed the shifter immediately.  The DD's
using the last of their P.P.E. were able to keep the rift open
long enough for a few hundred DD's to escape to Earth.  The
Dragons they left behind will probably die out within 50 years
unless they are able to find away to get off the planet.

Created By Capt MJB  edited by SEAN
Lightning Dragon R.C.C.

The Lightning Dragon is a rare species of Dragons.  There are 1/4
less Lightning Dragons than there are Chiang Ku's. The stats
below are for the baby dragon.  There are no adults on Rifts
Earth, and they're is only one at Atlantis perhaps once every 10
years. 

Size: The average Lightning Hatchling, in Dragon form, is 40 feet
long, 10 feet high, 7 feet wide, and has a wingspan of 60 feet.
Weight: The average Lightning Dragon weighs in at around 5 to 7
tons.

Attributes: IQ: 6D6  ME: 5D6  MA: 3D6  PS: 4D6  PP: 5D6  PE: 4D6
PB: 5D6
SPD: 6D6+2

PPE: 2d4x10
MDC: 1D6x50

Natural Abilities
1.  Fly at 100 MPH, Nightvision 80 feet, See the Invisible,
Electricity Resistant (1/2 
     damage from Particle and Ion attacks!!!), Regenerates 1D6x5
MDC per 4 minutes.

2.  Metamorphosis: Same as Great Horned Hatchling

3.  Teleport: Same as Great Horned Hatchling, but has 35% +3% Per
level of experience.

4.  Electricity Breath: 4D6 MD, 120 foot range

Psionics: Major Psionic. Choose Seven powers from and of the
psionic categories except super. Chose an additional psionic from
any level but super at levels 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, and 14. Choose 1
power from super at levels 6 and 12. ISP: 3d4x10+10

Magic Knowledge: Same as Great Horned Hatchling 
Spells: Same as Great Horned Hatchling, but can begin learning
spells at level 2.

Combat abilities: Equal to HTH: BASIC. +1 attack and +1 Dodge
 Combat Damage:  Same as normal dragon except that claws do 3D4
M.D. (add to punch attack) and bite does 1D6 M.D.

Size: Normal
Average Life Span: 6,200 years
Adult at 700 years

Lancer O.C.C.
Bonus: P.S.+3, P.P.+2, P.E.+4
Requirements: I.Q.:12, P.S.:15, P.P.:17 P.E.:16

I.S.P. if no psionics then 2d6
P.P.E. permanent base is 2d4

O.C.C. Skills
Aircraft Mechanics +10
Radio: Basic +10
Pilot: Lancer +20
Lancer Combat
Pilot: Jet Aircraft: +10
Navigation +10
Read Sensory Equipment +10
Weapon Systems +10
Pilot: Airplane +5
Literacy +10
Basic and Advanced Math +5
Select three modern W.P.'s
Athletics
Swimming +5
HTH Expert (can move up to martial at cost of one other skill)

OTHER Skills  select 10 skills but at least 2 must be from
physical and one from pilot.
COMMUNICATIONS: (ANY) +5
DOMESTIC: (ANY)
ELECTRICAL-Only Basic Electronics
ESPIONAGE-Only Wilderness Survival
MECHANICAL-Only Weapon and Mechanical Engineer
MEDICAL-Only First Aid and Holistic Medicine
MILITARY-Only Demolition
PHYSICAL: (ANY)
PILOT: (ANY)) +5
ROGUE: (ANY))
SCIENCE-Only Biology, Chemistry, and Astronomy
TECHNICAL-Only Language and Computer Operations and Programming
WEAPON PROFICIENCIES: (ANY)
WILDERNESS-Only Land Navigation and Hunting
Choose a new skill at levels 3, 5, 7, 10, 13, and 15

SECONDARY Skills-Select six skills from the above categories but
without IQ bonus

STANDARD EQUIPMENT:
Lancer PF-1a, a laser rifle of choice with three extra clips, a
laser pistol of choice with two extra clips, select a light
armor, a canteen, first aid kit, survival kit, two weeks of
rations, pilots suit, combat fatigues, compass, portable radio.

MONEY: Starts out at 5,000 credits a month when reach Captain
rank you get 10,000 
credits.

Levels from Private to Commander you are usually in a squad or
group.  Scout to Rogue Colonel you are by yourself, but at each
high level you will more danger, more responsibility, and farther
away from Lazlo.  At the rank of Brigadier Gen. pay is 20,000 a
month, and you are in command of all Lancer pilots and planes. 
You will no longer be flying.

ACE-10 KILLS $1,000 BONUS
DOUBLE ACE-25 KILLS $5,000
MERIT OF VALOR-8 KILLS $400
MERIT OF VALOR WITH BARS-15 KILLS $900
IRON CROSS-40 KILLS $10,000
IRON CROSS WITH BARS-55 KILLS $14,000
IRON CROSS WITH BARS AND CLUSTERS-70 KILLS $20,000
GOLD DRAGON-75 KILLS $30,000
CENTURY AWARD-100 KILLS $50,000
HONOR OF LAZLO-120 KILLS $100,000
McCOY AWARD-500 KILLS $1,000,000
GOLDEN HEART metal is given out for exceptional bravery on the
field of battle, usually given to those pilots that have died
during the battle.  $2,000 bonus every time you get this award.

WHAT COUNTS AS A KILL:
Any Mechanoid counts as a kill, Any power armor or robot counts
also.  Death Heads count for two kills.  As time goes on the
kills necessary to achieve an award or medal will double.

BACKGROUND AND INFORMATION:
The Lancer are a squadron of pilots that originated in Lazlo. 
They were created when the council felt that an attack from the
Coalition was imminent.  They picked the best men available and
trained them to become pilots of the new experimental plane.  The
Lancer has to be quick thinking and be able to endure vast
amounts of stress both physically and mentally.  Currently there
are only 50 pilots and 35 planes.  The council is still not sure
if they should continue making Lancer fighters.  As of right now
there is only one squadron of 15 planes permanently stationed in
Lazlo.  The rest are deployed in either pairs or by
themselves, throughout Old America.  Whether the Pilots succeed
or not will determine if they will continue making Lancers.

FUTURE:
The future depends on you.  If you succeed then there is a good
chance the Lancers will reach full production.  If you
continually fail than the project will be scrapped.  While low
level pilots will be posted Lazlo protecting it from evil D-Bees
and Humans.  Once you reach scout status you will be sent out
fighting in the name of Lazlo, capturing wanted criminals and
thwarting enemies of Lazlo.  As the Coalition turns their
attention to Lazlo you will be asked to fly more missions against
the Coalition.  These ideas are entirely up to the GM.  But
sooner or Later you should realize that the Coalition will attack
Lazlo.

Death Horse NPC
Most of these horses are black in color, while a few are white in
color.  Their flesh appears to be rotting away, with a few gaps
in the skin.  The eyes are a fiery red that eerily glows in the
dark.  The rider does not need a saddle or reins to ride this
horse.  The horse has a 90% prowl at full gallop.  They get a
little nippy when their rider is not around, kicking or biting
anyone who gets to close.

Alignment: Evil or Good alignment depending on the rider
IQ: Animal Intelligence 4+1D4
PS: 20+1D4     *Supernatural Strength*
PP: 10+1D8
PE: 26+1D6
PB: 2D6
Spd: 2D10*10
Hit Points: Mega-damage creature  1D8*10
ISP: 5D6
PPE: 2D10
Horror Factor: 13
Natural Abilities:

1. Stealth- Radar an other forms of detection, like
thermo-imaging, cannot detect the horse          for the horse is
actually dead an in corporeal form.

2. Burning Touch- All non-spirits who touch the horse are
inflicted with 2D4 M.D., the 
    horse feels so cold it burns.

3. Nightvision-120ft., Bio-regenerate 1D6*10 M.D. per melee.

4. Absolute Obedience- The horse will do whatever its rider asks. 
The horse will only 
    respond to its rider.  The two are lifelong mates.  When the
two first meet they bond 
    immediately.

5. Cold Breath- Breath is so cold it inflicts 2D6 M.D. up to 2
feet away.

Combat:
Kick: 1D6 M.D.
Bite: 1D8 M.D.
Stomp: 2D6 M.D.
Ram: 4D6 M.D.
Two attacks per melee.  Bonus of +1 to strike, parry, and dodge.

Height: 6ft
Length: 10ft
Weight: 900lbs

The horse has the same flaws as his rider.  Can only bond with an
Inuit or Seventh Cavalrymen.

Rapid Fly NPC
About ten years ago the rapid fly was the plague of the land,
they destroyed crops and spread disease and death.  The rapid
flies origin is unknown to the human population, but it is
theorized that they came from some huge super dimension where
these insects were normal like a bug is to us.  The rapid flies
have a voracious appetite eating eight times their own body
weight each hour.  A horde of rapid flies have been known to
destroy an entire crop in under an hour.  The flies are not
sentient they react just like any other insect, their main
concerns are to eat and to reproduce.  If they are alone an
attacked their main objective is to escape.  The rapid flies are
much more confident when they are in large groups, they are much
more likely to attack instead of retreating.  Another problem
with the rapid fly is that they carry an unknown virus that is
believed to be a regular cold in their own dimension, but on
Earth this virus is deadly.  As of right now their is no known
cure for this virus that local inhabitants call the "chills".

Alignment: Anarchist or Miscreant
IQ: Insect Intelligence 1D4
ME:  2D6
MA: 2D6
PS: 4D6   *Supernatural Strength*
PP: 3D6
PE: 4D6
PB: 1D4
Spd: 5D6 crawling or 75 mph flying
ISP: 1D6*10
PPE: 2D10
Hit Points/M.D.C.: 1D8*10 
Horror Factor: 12

Height: 1 foot
Length: 3 feet
Wingspan: 7 feet

Physical Description: The insect looks like a mix between a bee
and a fly.  It has a stinger on its back that it uses to defend
itself, while it also spits mucus when it bites a victim.  This
mucus helps the fly to digest food, the mucus is highly
contagious to most Earth animals.  The flies main color is black
but they do have a few red splotches located on its body.  

Natural Abilities:
1.  Fly:  The fly can fly at speeds up to 75 mph for over two
hours.  

2.  Fly vision: The fly sees things differently from us, they see
differences in light and dark                that allows to see
much more effectively than us.  This vision also allows them to
see in    
     the dark very well.

3.  Bio-Regeneration: The fly has very good healing system. 
1D4*10 per melee.

4.  Mucus:  The mucus comes into effect when the fly uses its
bite attack.  If the fly     
     breaks the skin of its victim than the mucus enters the
bloodstream.  Victim must save   
     vs. lethal poison or they will get sick 1D4 days and
eventually dying in six days.  Even if    
     victims successfully saves they will get sick in 1D4 days
but will get over it six days.   
     Also if the victims survives they are totally immune to that
one flies mucus but no 
     other flies mucus.  The illness makes the victim feel very
cold and they involuntarily 
     shiver.  Every three hours the victim vomits uncontrollably,
also the victims has a 
     splitting headaches that does not ease up.  When sick the
character can not perform any 
     magic spells due to lack of concentration.  Also a -15% to
performing all skills, and -3 
     to parry, dodge, and strike.

Combat
Bite: 1D6 M.D.
Stinger: 2D6 M.D.
Ram: 2D6 M.D.
Wingwhip: 3D6 M.D. (counts as two attacks)
Attacks: three

Ghost Buffalo NPC
These monsters look like white buffalo, they roam the plains in
great herds.  These monsters are harmless unless attacked.  The
only problem with the buffalo is that they travel in great herds,
sometimes measuring in the thousands, trampling everything in
their path.  The buffalo's are very destructive, they do not care
for human life or property nothing diverts them from their path.

Alignment: Anarcist
IQ: Animal Intelligence 1D6
ME: 2D6
MA: 2D6
PS: 5D6   *Supernatural Strength*
PP: 3D6
PE: 5D6
PB: 3D6
Spd: 6D6
ISP: 1D4*10
PPE: 5D6
Horror Factor: 13
Hit Points: 2D6*10

Height: 5ft
Length: 7ft
Weight: Anywhere 1,000 to 2,000 pounds

Natural Abilities
1.  Herd: The buffalo have a natural ability to locate other
ghost buffaloes within 100 
     miles.  Using this sense the buffalo will gather in great
herds numbering in the                 
      thousands.                                                  
                             

2.  Nightvision: 200 feet, Bio-regeneration: 2D6 Hit Points per
melee.

3.  Ghostly Appearance: The buffalo appear to be an eerie white
color.  You can almost 
     see through, but you can't.

4.  Cold Touch:  Touching the skin of the dead inflicts such a
cold shock to the toucher that it inflicts mega-damage.  2D6 M.D.
for every attack touching it.

Combat
Head Butt: 1D6 M.D.
Ram: 3D6 M.D.
Kick: 2D6 M.D.
Attacks: Three

Other Animals known to inhabit North Dakota.  
Having Monsters & Animals is suggested but not required.  Also
having  Rifts: England is suggested.  

Northern Grizzly Bear, Brown Bear, Bison, Wart hog, Condor,
Osprey, Red-Tailed Hawk, 
Great Horned Owl, King Cobra, Deer, Raccoon, Minx, Fox, Rabbit,
Beaver, Skunks, Gopher, Red Squirrel, Chipmunk, Swallow,
Blackbird, Lark, Robin, Sparrow, Duck, Ring-Necked Pheasant, Wild
Goose, Grouse, Coyote, Prairie Dog, Salmon, Pike, Carp,  Bass,
and Sunfish.

Animals that originated from England usually get here by means
depositing their eggs in cargo and then is delivered to North
Dakota or neighboring states.  They eventually will reach North
Dakota, and from their they start to multiply.

North Dakota currently has Crawlies, Giant Clamp-Mouth Dragonfly,
Flash Beetle, and Stone Ball Bug.

New Psionics
Growth    Category: Physical  Duration: Instant   ISP: 6    
Range: 100 feet per level     This power fertilizes and
stimulates seeds by feeding it ISP.  The seed will rapidly start
to grow reaching full maturity y in one hour.  The seed will grow
anywhere.  Can be used on more than one seed.

Rain      Category: Sensitive Duration: 1 hour    ISP: 12   
Range: 100 feet per level     This is similar to the power in
Rifts: Africa.  As long as there is at least 1% humidity in the
air the psychic will make it rain.

Animal Empathy   Category: Sensitive    Duration: 10 minutes    
ISP: 5
Range: Touch             This power allows the psychic to
understand animal emotions.  He can tell what the animal likes
and dislikes, or what is wrong with it.  The power allows the
character to act like a Doctor Doolittle.

Calm Animal     Category: Sensitive     Duration: Instant   ISP:
2 per animal
Range: 500 feet per level     The psychic can calm a raging
animal.  Useful for stopping stampedes and calming animals so you
can treat them.

Repel Insects    Category: Physical     Duration: 10 min. per
level     ISP: 8
Range: 5 feet per level       This is used to repel insects away
from the user.  At lower levels power is meant to keep insects
away from user, at higher levels meant to keep away from houses
or caravans.

Create Well    Category: Sensitive Duration: Instant   ISP: 10
Range: -            This power is sort of like the one in
Wormwood, except their has to be a hole or trench already dug. 
Also their has to be at least 1% humidity in the air.  The user
will pull precipitation from the air and direct it toward the
hole.

Ride Animal    Category: Physical  Duration: Hour per level  
ISP: 11
Range: Touch             This power is a combination calm animal
and forcing your *will on the animal.  The user can ride any
animal as long as it has an animal intelligence.  He can also
direct it and tell it how fast or how slow he wants it to go.

Purify Soil    Category: Physical  Duration: Instant   ISP: 7
Range: Acre per level         Allows user to rid any toxins that
are the soil, making it fertile.  Will also get rid of low-levels
of radiation.

Scarecrow Category: Sensitive Duration: 2 weeks per level    ISP:
10
Range: 10           The user builds a scarecrow and then uses
this power to implant a fear into the scarecrow equal to horror
factor seven.  It scares away all birds in the surrounding areas. 
Also it can sometimes scare away low-level, low-power
supernatural beings like faerie folk.  More powerful beings will
not be affected.

Purify food and water    Category: Physical  Duration: Instant   
ISP: 15
Range: Touch or 3 feet   This power is exactly like the spell
located on page 179 in Rifts RPG.

Purify Room    Category: Physical  Duration: 1 hour per level    ISP:
13
Range: 10 by 10 foot room     This power cleanses a room leaving
it germ and dust free.  This power is ideal for sanitizing a
surgery room or for housing the sick or infested.  Ill people
will get over sickness three times faster while in this
environment.

Notes about Surround Areas    By Erin Tarn  1004 P.A.
South Dakota
South Dakota is truly an evil place.  It is said a Supernatural
Intelligence has enslaved the population there and made it a
haven for D-Bee's.  Many, are the tales of atrocities by the
hands of Monsters.  It is said that they have set up camps for
humans to die in.  This brings back memories of Auschwitz in the
1940's.  Right now North Dakota cities are not powerful enough to
help.  The Coalition either does not know or care about the
human's plight in South Dakota.  The Coalition has yet to lift a
finger to help.

Minnesota
Minnesota is almost barren of with Tolkeen being the only
exception.  The Xiticix have tripled their size in the last three
years, threatening to decimate all of humanity in Minnesota and
the surrounding areas.  Fortunately Prosek has realized that his
own empire is threatened, and has called a truce between the
Coalition and Tolkeen.  Together they hope to defeat the Xiticix. 
Sadly once the Xiticix have been defeated the Coalition will
resume its siege of Tolkeen.  I fear for Tolkeen, for now they
have to fight two enemies.

Montana
Montana is a haven for humanity.  Too far away for the Coalition
to have any influence on them, the inhabitants live peacefully.
The only problem is the Magic zone located in the western portion
of the old state, but even that is not a major problem.  The zone
is controlled by a 26th level Great Horned dragon.  He considers
the zone to be his domain, nothing can come in or out without his
approval.  Only once has anything ever escaped from the zone. 
The ones lucky enough were a group of Death Dragons, an only a
small number at that (300).  I see Montana as the next great
civilization waiting to happen.  The people here are a hard
working industrious lot.  While their tech-level is low (19th
century, they are eagerly learning everything thing they can.  It
will be interesting to see if they can survive with all this doom
and despair surrounding them.

Winnipeg (Canada)  Not by Erin Tarn
Winnipeg is a hustling trade town of the Splugorth.  Relatively
few outsiders know about this town.  Splynncryth set this town up
a few years back in the hopes to corner the market in technology
in the Northwest.  So far his plan is working very well.  That
could all change if the Coalition were to get wind of this town. 
The paranoid leaders of Chit-Town will not allow a threat like
that so close to its borders.  Chi-town would forget about other
plans of invasions an attack Winnipeg until it is just ashes. 
The town defenses consist of two Dragon Dreadnoughts, 20 Creax
armored Rovers, 10 Insecton Land Rovers,  50 Kittani Serpent
Power Armors, and 25 Equestrian Power Armors.

Reactions by other Powers
This is how other powers would react upon learning about
McCoyville and Space Station.

Coalition:  If the Coalition was ever to learn that McCoyville
still exists they would send in three divisions to utterly
destroy McCoyville.  They would also occupy all of North Dakota
to ensure that McCoyville will never again rise from the ashes. 
If they were to find out about the Space Station, they would
immediately ally themselves with the New German Republic.  They
will order their scientists to find away of getting into space,
so that they can dispatch with this threat.  The paranoid leaders
of the Coalition would unite the human population, forgetting
about past differences and set them on a common goal to destroy
the space station.  

New German Republic:  The NGR would not care about McCoyville and
might actually try to trade with them.  If they were to find out
about the Station, they would become extremely interested in
getting the technology to get up there.  They would do anything
to get that technology, even if means helping the Coalition
destroy McCoyville.

Mechanoids:  The Mechanoids would not care about McCoyville,
seeing it as to far away to do anything.  If they find out about
the station they too would become extremely interested.  They
would view the space station as a way to contact their fellow
Mechanoids.  They would too would do almost anything to get up
their.

ARCHIE Seven:  Upon learning about such a powerful station so
close to the moon, he would forge an alliance with the rest of
the stations in order to destroy the station.  ARCHIE and the
other stations cannot allow Earthlings to get a foothold in
space.  They do not want evil monsters and humans to destroy
their environment like they did on Earth so long ago.

Atlantis:  If Atlantis was to learn about McCoyville, Splynncryth
would like to enter a trade agreement with the to further is
strength in the Northeast.  But if they don't agree he will not
push the matter not wanting anyone to find out about Winnipeg. 
The station would be of little interest to him, for Earth is the
true commodity for him.

This is how other powers would react upon learning about
Winnipeg.

Coalition:  They would do an all out attack on this city not
stopping until Winnipeg is  destroyed.  The Coalition cannot
allow the Splugorth so close to their borders.

NGR:  To far away to make any difference.  They might supply
Coalition with some +weapons.

McCoy:  McCoy has been to Atlantis, and knows that the Splugorth
are ruthless traders.  He will start a private war with Winnipeg,
trying to make Splynncryth give up on the idea of a Northeastern
trading region.

Mechanoids:  Don't care.
This is how other powers would react upon learning about Arpita

Coalition:  They would immediately occupy North Dakota, they
cannot something this powerful so close to their borders.

Atlantis:  They would not try and prevent Arpita's growth unless
it interferes with their trading in Winnipeg.  If it does
interfere Splynncryth will send an army into the Badlands to
wipeout Arpita and his minions.

Atlanteans:  They would treat Arpita and his minions the same way
they treat vampires.

NPC
*Note, these are the updated an official versions of these
characters*
Jim McCoy
McCoy was born in Lazlo where he lived for 16 years.  While
living in Lazlo he learned that not all D-bee's are evil and that
sometimes humans are more evil.  His parents encouraged learning
and free thinking.  On his 16th birthday he left Lazlo to wander
the world.  McCoy learned he liked to help people, and that
killing was a terrible thing.  After several years he returned to
Lazlo, where he was elected to the Congress of Electorate. 
During his term he worked hard to ease the pain of many.  McCoy
retired from office when his mother a Mind Melter was killed by
an unidentified army.  McCoy wandered the world for many years
unsure of what to do next.  McCoy settled in a small valley in
North 
Dakota, where he began to build a company.  While in Dakota McCoy
followed up on one of his dreams, and that was to create an
artificial life.  His first version Jorgenson, Jorgenson was a
Neural Intelligence.  While Jorgenson was good, McCoy felt he
could do better.  He was creating a robot, when the Coalition
invaded his town.  One of the Coalitions missiles hit a sensitive
part of his factory.  In the chaos that pursued, McCoy essence
was transferred to the robot.  McCoy fled Earth seeking the
safety of his station.  McCoy has not come done yet, and probably
will never come done unless it is an emergency.

True Name: Jim Holloway
Alignment: Scrupulous
Attributes: IQ: 30, ME: 20, MA: 18, PS: 51, PP: 34, PE: -, PB:
22, Spd: 200 mph
Weight: 1500lbs     Height: 15ft    Age: At time of
transformation was 39yrs old
PPE: 24  ISP: 9
Hit Points/M.D.C.: 605
Experience Level: 16th level Body Fixer
Psionic Powers: None
Magic Knowledge: None
Combat: HTH: Martial Arts with Boxing and all physical
Attacks Per Melee: Seven
Bonuses: +2 on initiative, +10 to strike, +14 to parry and dodge,
+36 S.D.C. damage, +16 to roll, +8 to pull.
Punch: 2D6 M.D.
Punch: 6D6 M.D.
Power Punch: 2D6*10 M.D.
Kick: 4D6 M.D.
Leap Kick: 1D6*10 M.D.
Tackle: 3D6 M.D.
Stomp: 1D6 M.D.

Skills of Note: Knows all medicine at 98%, W.P. Energy Rifle,
Energy Pistol, Heavy, Sword, and Knife.

Favorite Weapons: 200A Rifle, C-27, K4, a vibroblade, and a
fusion block.  McCoy can also use almost any weapon he wants.
Body Armor:  McCoy wears a specially modified Illinois armor that
weighs 100lbs and gives 100 M.D.C.

Special Vehicle:  A modified Behemoth.  Note the Behemoth is not
in this book but probably will be in my edition of Mutants in
Orbit.

Cybernetics:  McCoy's body is very different than most robots. 
McCoy made the robot modular, so that you could add or remove
different cybernetics based on the assignment.  McCoy can use and
does use virtually every type of cybernetic.  Some important ones
is the fake skin cosmetics listed in the Sourcebook #1.

Money: McCoy carries only about 1,000 credits, but has at his
disposal billions of credits in metals and rock (gold and
jewels).

Alliances & Allies: Brother of Texder Worthington, Grizzle, and
the government of Lazlo.

Sean Holloway
Son of John Holloway, brother to McCoy.  Sean was the youngest in
the family.  From early on you could tell Sean was different from
his brothers.  He was far more aggressive and meaner than the
others.  When Sean was 18 years old he joined the Coalition and
unknowingly killed his mother on a raid of a small D-bee loving
town.  Sean has broken all ties with the rest of his family, the
Coalition is his family now.  Sean will have no problems or
qualms about killing a member of his family if so ordered.  Sean
is currently located in Guardian, where he is fourth in command.

True Name: Sean Holloway
Rank: Captain
Alignment: Aberrant
Attributes: IQ: 20, ME: 17, MA: 13, PS: 40, PP: 32, PE: 35, PB:
14, Spd: 52
Hit Points: 82, S.D.C.: 124
Weight: 280lbs      Height: 75 inches   Age: 27
PPE: 10  ISP: 2
Experience Level: Seventh level Military Specialist
Psionic Powers: None
Magic Knowledge: None
Combat: HTH: Assassin and boxing
Attacks Per Melee: Seven
Bonuses: +1 on initiative, +12 to strike, +14 to parry and dodge,
+12 to roll, and +4 to pull.

Skills of Note: See Military Specialist template.  Average Skill
Level is 86%

Weapons: C-12, Wilk's 457, 5 grenades (5D6), CAWS AA1 (1D6*10
S.D.C.), Pump 
Pistol, particle beam, 5 Fusion Blocks (4D6*10), also Sean can
get almost any weapon within reason.

Body Armor: Dead Boy armor 80 M.D. also can use Gladiator Armor
70 M.D.
Special Vehicle: Coalition Sky Cycle
Cybernetics: Headjack with special augmentation, Video camera
eye, Optic nerve video implant, and particle beam.

Money: 336,000 credits an also gets a monthly salary.
Alliance & Allies: He trust no one except the Coalition

Texder Worthington
Texder is the second oldest brother of the Holloway family,
second only to McCoy. Texder lead a life different than the rest
of his brothers.  Unlike their more aggressive ways, Texder
learned the difficult art of magic.  One thing that was same with
all the brothers was that he liked to build things, Texder found
that with the aid of magic he could make his machinery better
than normal.  Texder developed this art, and became a head
technician to the McCoy complex in North Dakota.  Texder did not
flee to the space station like the rest of the citizens, instead
he left the valley and headed to Lazarus.  After a few years
Texder was elected to the council where he secretly supplies the
town with supplies an arms from McCoy's factories.  Texder does
not use his magical powers in public and has not told anybody in
Lazarus about these powers.

True Name: Texder Holloway
Alignment: Principled
Attributes: IQ: 23, ME: 30, MA: 28, PS: 34, PP: 37, PE: 36, PB:
15, Spd: 46
Hit Points: 102     S.D.C.: 156
Weight: 230lbs  Height: 72 inches   Age: 39
PPE: 224    ISP: 101
Experience Level: Ninth level Techno-Wizard
Psionic Powers: Speed Reading, Total Recall, Mind Block, and
Tele-mechanics.
Magic Knowledge: Blinding Flash, Globe of Daylight, See Aura,
Sense Evil, Chameleon, Levitation, Mystic Alarm, Armor of Ithan,
Energy Bolt, Fuel Flame, Ignite Fire, Impervious to Fire,
Telekinesis, Energy Field, Fire Bolt, Circle of Flame, Energy
Disruption, Call Lightning, Fire Ball, Impervious to Energy,
Words of Truth, Wind Rush, Cloud of Smoke, Thunder Clap, Create
Magic Scroll, Time Slip, Invulnerability, Invisibility: Superior,
Magic Net.

Combat: HTH: Martial Arts and boxing
Attacks Per Melee: 7
Bonuses: +3 on initiative, +12 to strike, +17 to parry and dodge,
and +9 to roll.

Skills of Note: See Techno-Wizard Template.

Weapons: C-12, Wilk's 457, and a K4

Special Weapons: Texder has made numerous weapons that are not
mentioned in this book.  Perhaps I will include them in later
books.

Body Armor: Crusader 55 M.D.
Cybernetics: None
Money: 1,175,000 credits are at his disposal.
Alliance & Allies: His brothers, the government of Lazarus.

Grizzleberrelcaderall (Grizzle for short)
Grizzle is the adopted son McCoy's great grandfather.  Grizzle
parents were killed by roving band of marauders, McCoy's great
grandfather found him and raised him like a son.  When he died
McCoy's grandfather took care of him, and then his father took
care of him.  McCoy Considers him a brother, and not a distant
relative.  Grizzle studies the art of magic, and he played a
major role in the evacuation of McCoyville when the Coalition
attacked.  Currently Grizzle is on the space station, training
young ones in the art of magic.  He is the General to McCoy's
magic division of his army.
 
True Name: The Same
Alignment: Unprincipled
Attributes: IQ: 20, ME: 19, MA: 25, PS: 24, PP: 38, PE: 35, PB:
36, Spd: 52
Hit Points: 100     S.D.C.: 154
Weight: 290lbs  Height: 83 inches   Age: 155
PPE: 500    ISP: 60
Experience Level: Ninth level Elf Shifter
Psionic Powers: None
Magic Knowledge: All spells in the Rifts RPG known
Combat: HTH: Martial Arts
Attacks Per Melee: Six
Bonuses: +2 on initiative, +11 to strike, +17 to parry and dodge,
+9 to roll, and +6 to pull

Skills of Note: See Shifter Template

Weapons: Wilk's 457, Vibrosword, C-12, 2 fusion blocks.  All of
his weapons are attuned to him.

Special Vehicle: None
Cybernetics: None
Money: 12,000 credits
Alliance & Allies: His family

Note:  Here are a some more of the Holloway family that was not
mentioned in this book.
John Holloway: Rogue Scholar, Father
Frank Holloway: Headhunter, Brother, A.K.A.: Stainless Steel Rat
Crunyon: Vagabond, Sister
Maxima: Eandorth Cyber-Knight, Friend and General to McCoy
Maryian Holloway: Mind Melter, Mother-Dead
Greagon: Burster, Son of Texder
Larann Worthington: Rogue Scientist, Wife of Texder-died in
McCoyville

Michael Jorgenson
Jorgenson was McCoy's first attempt a robot.  Jorgenson worked
out perfectly.  Currently Jorgenson is in charge of security at
McCoyville.  McCoy also made a eagle and a wolf, as companions
and protection for Jorgenson.  Jorgenson seldom leaves McCoyville
an if he does it is only for a short period of time.

True Name: AA1
Alignment: Unprincipled
Attributes: IQ: 28, PS: 60, PP: 43, PB: 26, Spd: 220
Hit Points/M.D.C.: 700
Weight: 1,800lbs    Height: 19ft    Age: Looks to be 19     Sex:
Looks Male
PPE and ISP: Nil
Experience Level: Neural Intelligence Bot
Psionic Powers: Nil
Magic Knowledge: Nil
Combat: Martial Arts
Attacks Per Melee: Six
Bonuses: +6 on initiative, +11 to strike, +11 to parry and dodge,
+10 to roll 

Lyle Benz (A.K.A.: The Elegant Man)
Lyle was your average Joe, meaking out an existence deep in the
bowels of Chi-Town when he was confronted by Arpita.  Lyle had
always dreamed of being something better than he was, Arpita
played on that fantasy and convinced Lyle to the transformation. 
Since then Lyle has gained power, fame, money, and the all
important respect through fear.  Lyle enjoy's controlling people,
he views the world as a chess board and people are his pawns to
be manipulated and discarded at his whim.  Lyle tries many ways
to booster his legions of undead troops.  So far the most popular
and most effective method is tantalizing humans with the hopes of
gold in North Dakota.  Lyle is always dressed in a expensive
suit, looking his best at all times.  In his true form Lyle looks
like a red mist.

True Name: Lyle Benz
Alignment: Diabolic
Attributes: IQ: 22, ME: 23, MA: 20, PS: 40, PP: 29, PB: 2/23,
Spd: 2
Considered a Supernatural Creature
Hit Points: 410
PPE: 50, ISP: 300
Horror Factor: 14 when in mist form.
R.C.C.: Aiite Master 
Level of Experience: Tenth
Natural Abilities: Nightvision-200ft., Invulnerability (special),
communication with Arpita, bio-regenerate-1D8*10 per melee,
Lightning attack-1D8*10 M.D. once every melee, create rod, and
metamorphis at will.
Flaws: Gold does double damage, and is repulsed by salt.
Psionic Powers: Considered a master psionic.  Knows all Physical
and Sensitive powers,  and knows 5 super of GM's choice.
Magic Knowledge: Fire Bolt, Fools Gold, Turn Dead, Ley Line
Transmission, Mystic Alarm, and Seal.
Combat Abilities: Expert (10th level proficiency)
Attacks per melee: Six
Skills of Note: See Mind Melter template
Appearance: Nice dressed slender man in his late 20's.  White
skin with black hair, brown eyes, and is 6 feet tall.
Special Vehicles: None
Equipment of Note: The only thing he carries of any importance is
his rod, anything else he can pick up on the way or buy ahead of
time.
Weapons of Note: Lyle when not using his hands will use his K4 or
Triax pump pistol.  
Body Armor: None, will absolutely not use any kind of armor.
Cybernetics: None, his body will not accept them.
Money: Carries 300,000 credits on him, but has access to billions
of dollars.
Alliance and Allies: His only allies is his fellow Aiites and
Arpita all others are toys to be played with.

Grog
Grog is the king of the Gromek in the city of Lazarus.  Grog has
many plans to rule the world, but is satisfied for ruling Lazarus
for now.  The king is a very paranoid fellow, he thinks any human
stranger is a Coalition spy.  It is very hard to change the
king's mind on most subjects.  Once he makes a decision he
intends to follow through with.  If given the chance he would
conquer all of North Dakota, and then eventually North America.

True Name: Grog Arya
Alignment: Anarchist
Attributes: IQ: 10, ME: 13, MA: 9, PS: 23, PP: 17, PE: 23, PB: 8,
Spd: 7 running, 40 flying.
Hit Points: 89, S.D.C.: 140
S.D.C. Armor Rating: 12
Horror Factor: 14
PPE: 10, ISP: 18
O.C.C.: Gromek King
Level Of Experience: Eighth
Natural Abilities: Fly, keen hawk-like vision, resistant to fire
(does half damage), extremely aggressive.
Psionic Powers: None
Magic Knowledge: None
Combat Abilities: Martial Arts (8th level proficiency)
Attacks: Six
Bonuses: +4 to strike, +5 to parry and dodge, +7 to dodge in
flight, and +2 to initiative.
Damage:   Bite: 1D6+4 S.D.C.
                 Claws (hand): 1D6+2
          Claws (feet): 2D6+2
Skills of Note: Wrestling, W.P. Sword, Blunt, Archery, literate
in Gromek and American.
Special Vehicles: None
Equipment of Note: None
Weapons of Note: Grog has a huge collection of maces and swords
valued at over three million credits.  Also likes to use a Wilk's
457 or a Triax Pump Pistol.
Body Armor: Wears a Mega-Damage chain mail that protects the
upper half of his body.
Armor Rating of 13, and can take 40 M.D.
Cybernetics: Vibro-claws in right arm.
Money: Has over 10 million credits in the royal treasury.
Alliance and Allies: Has worked out a trade agreement with
Bismark and surrounding towns except Guardian which he despises.

Arpita
Arpita embodies the ultimate evil, Arpita is willing to do
whatever it takes to be the supreme ruler of Earth.  Arpita sees
Earth as the gateway to thousands of other dimensions, to which
he can populate and rule with his minions.  Currently Arpita is
preparing his main attack on this planet, so he will not try and
do anything that will reveal himself to other Intelligences
(Splynncryth and Vampire Intelligences).  He came to this planet
just five years ago, but he has had his minions on this planet
for over 50 years now.

Alignment: Diabolic
Horror Factor: 18
Size: 200 feet and weighs 200 tons.
Attributes: IQ: 32, ME: 31, MA: 33, PS: 54, PP: 25, PE: 29, PB:
4, Spd: 70
Supernatural Strength.
M.D.C.: 100,000
Natural Abilities: Bio-Regeneration-1D6*10 M.D.C. per minute, see
the invisible, nightvision-2,400 feet, turn invisible at will,
impervious to poison/toxins/drugs/fire, does not breath air,
possess intelligent life forms, teleport self and others up to
600 miles away, Dimensional teleport at will, animate and control
1D6*100 dead, fire bolt 6D6 M.D., range 6,000 feet, summon 6D6
lesser demon three times daily instantly appear, summon 2D6
greater demons three times per day appear instantly, and
vulnerable to gold inflicts M.D. equal to S.D.C. damage.
Combat: 13 attacks per melee
Bonuses: +7 to initiative, +3 to dodge and parry, +4 to pull
punch, +5 to roll with impact, +14 to save versus horror factor,
+4 on all saving throws in addition to attribute bonuses.
Magic Knowledge: Knows all spells in the Rifts RPG book,
considered a 17th level castor. 
Also first five levels of spells can be cast instantly, while the
next five can be cast an attack later, and the final level
another attack later.
PPE: 20,000
Psionics: All psionic powers known.
ISP: 5,000 and is considered a 12 level psychic.

Adventure Ideas
1.  The group sets out to explore the Badlands looking for gold. 
They are introduced to many different things inside the Badlands. 
The final scene should be against the Supernatural Intelligence. 
They don't have to beat the Supernatural Intelligence though. 
This mission is mainly used to introduce the characters to the
dangers of the Badlands.

2.  This one works well for a group of Silver Rangers.  A Death
Dragon appears over the town the PC's are staying in.  The
townspeople freak out at the sight of the Dragon.  It is the
Rangers job to calm the people down before a riot breaks out. 
Also they have to get rid of the Dragon, and to see why it came. 
The rangers find out that an ancient (350 year old) device has
been activated, and has been digging its way up to the surface
for the last 50 years.  The technology is far superior than
anything known to man.  It is up to you to decide what is so
dangerous about it, and where it came from.

3.  You are a Lancer Pilot sent out on your first mission outside
of Lazlo.  You spot a group of Coalition soldiers shooting at an
unarmed human.  Pilot should decide to help the human.  The human
turns out to be an Aiite Commandant and thanks to he pilot he has
prevented the soldiers from killing it.  Pilot must survive the
battle and prevent the oncoming destruction of a nearby town. 

4.  The group comes across a battlescene, their are human bodies
everywhere.  There are two different sets of tracks leading off
in two directions.  One set appears to be human, while the other
looks to be mechanized.  If PC's follow the human tracks they
will discover the humans are Minions of Arpita, and will have to
survive the engagement.  If PC's follow the mechanized tracks
they will find a 15 foot tall human surrounded by robots and
power armors.  If PC's approach group they find out the humans
name is McCoy and robots PA's are his.  This is just the
beginning part there are many ways you can finish this adventure.






Experience Table
Inuit               Town Doctor              Agriculturist
Seventh Cav         Technocrat               Silver Ranger
CyberRanger         CyberWarrior             Coalition Commando
1. 0-1,500          1. 0-2,000               1. 0-3,000
2. 1,501-3,500      2. 2,000-4,000           2. 3,000-5,000
3. 3,501-5,000      3. 4,001-6,000           3. 5,001-7,500
4. 5,001-8,000      4. 6,001-10,000          4. 7,501-12,000
5. 8,001-12,000     5. 10,001-14,000         5. 12,001-15,000
6. 12,001-20,000    6. 14,001-20,000         6. 15,001-25,000
7. 20,001-28,000    7. 20,001-26,000         7. 25,001-32,000
8. 28,001-40,000    8. 26,001-32,000         8. 32,001-36,500
9. 40,001-75,000    9. 32,001-40,000         9. 36,501-45,000
10. 75,001-180,000  10. 40,001-140,000       10. 45,001-55,000
11. 180,001-230,000 11. 140,001-200,000      11. 55,001-175,000
12. 230,001-280,000 12. 200,001-290,000      12. 175,001-250,000
13. 280,001-320,000 13. 290,001-340,000      13. 250,001-330,000
14. 320,001-360,000 14. 340,001-380,000      14. 330,001-390,000
15. 360,001-450,000 15. 380,001-430,000      15. 390,001-500,000




Lancer                             Lightning Dragon    
Private:  0,000-2,750              Brahmagupta Dragon
Corporal: 2,751-6,720              Death Dragon
Sergeant: 6,721-10,000             1. 0-6,000
2nd Lieutenant:  10,001-15,000     2. 6,001-10,000
1st Lieutenant:  15,001-25,000     3. 10,001-25,000
Captain: 25,001-40,000             4. 25,001-39,500
Major:   40,001-50,000             5. 39,501-50,000
Lieutenant Colonel: 50,001-74,000  6. 50,001-75,000
Colonel:   74,001-95,000           7. 75,001-100,000
Commander: 95,001-120,000          8. 100,001-140,000
Scout:  120,001-130,000            9. 140,001-200,000
Rogue Captain: 130,001-190,000     10. 200,001-300,000
Rogue Major:   190,001-290,000     11. 300,001-350,000
Rogue Colonel: 290,001-380,000     12. 350,001-400,000
Brigadier General: 380,001-470,000 13. 400,001-800,000
                                   14. 800,001-1,200,000
                                   15. 1,200,001-2,500,000
 