Article 17811 of rec.games.video.arcade:
Newsgroups: rec.games.video.arcade
Path: news.Hawaii.Edu!ames!haven.umd.edu!darwin.sura.net!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!organpipe.uug.arizona.edu!galileo.physics.arizona.edu!news
From: coxb@tethys.mathcs.carleton.edu (Bethany Cox)
Subject: Knuckle Heads Moves, Description, & Strategy Guide
Message-ID: <1993Sep13.200610.1901@galileo.physics.arizona.edu>
Keywords: What is a keyword?  Can I hit it on the head?
Sender: news@galileo.physics.arizona.edu (C-news)
Organization: University of Arizona Physics Department
Date: Mon, 13 Sep 1993 20:06:10 GMT
Lines: 591

           Knuckle Heads Description & Strategy Guide

--Knuckle Heads moves are taken with much gratitude from G. K. 
Everything else is from my observations & experiences when
playing the arcade game.  Please e-mail corrections to me, so
that if there is ANYONE out there who actually PLAYS this game, I
can repost a revised description & strategy guide in a month or
so. :-)
--Knuckle Heads is, of course, an SF II clone with the chief
distinguishing feature that up to four players may fight each
other at once.  While two-player matches are on a two-dimensional
plane a la SF II, three- & four-player fights take place in a
pseudo-3D setting [as in the WWF Wrestlefest game].  There is a
certain amount of flicker & slowdown in four-player brawls,
though... on the other hand, two- and three-player matches are as
smooth as you could ever ask for in the arcade.

Name                Country   Age  Height         Weight
Claudia Silva       Brazil    23   172 cm/5'8"    ?
Blat Vaike          Greece    35   158 cm/5'2"    70kg/159 lb
Rob Vincent         US        28   181 cm/5'11"   89 kg/185 lb
Takeshi Fujioka     Japan     25   175 cm/5'9"    75 kg/165 lb
Christine Myao      China     18   168 cm/5'6"    43 kg/95 lb
Gregory Darrell     Norway    39   216 cm/8'4"    127 kg/280 lb
Golden Doppelganger ???       ??   variable       variable
The Host            ???       20s  average        average

Blocking is the same as SF II, with the note that you can only
     block attacks coming from one direction at a time--so that
     you CAN literally be stabbed in the back, especially in
     three- or four-player brawls!

Throwing is the same as in SF II with one distinction--you must
     be close to your opponent & hold the joystick towards while
     tapping the Low Attack button [or maybe either one...] 
     Holding the joystick away from your opponent will not give
     you the throw, unlike SF II.  Also, as in X-men, you can
     injure other opponents by hurling a thrown body into them.

     In addition to their normal attacks, special attacks, and
throws, all KHers can build up an aura of fire [pink fire for
Christine, blue for Takeshi, red for Rob, gold for Claudia, grey
for Blat, & green for Gregory] given a couple of seconds & expend
the stored energy in an "aura attack" for more damage and greater
reach.  The aura is built up by pressing and holding down an
attack button; the aura attack is executed by taking one's finger
off the button or by tapping the other attack button while the
first is still held down.  Auras can be charged while blocking,
and aura attacks can be executed while standing, crouching, or in
the air.  Aura attacks take off no damage when blocked, though;
only special attacks do that.  They also take just a *little* bit
more time to recover from, but nowhere near as much as, say, a
fireball.
     The six fighters normally dress as listed, with the above
characteristic aura colors.  Should a character fight himself or
herself [as a result of two to four or more humans playing each
other, usually] then each one will wear a different color and
have a differently colored aura, shadows, etc.  If two people
play the same character, then the second fighter is colored in
purple; if three, the third is in white; and if four, then the
fourth is in a weird sort of light-brown negative coloration [not
wholly unlike what you see when you try one of those so-called
"boss codes" for the SNES SF II.]

Key:  There are three buttons:  High Attack, Low Attack, and
Jump.  Joystick positions are described as follows:  FU= Forward
Up, F = Forward, DF = Down Forward, D = Down, DB = Down Back, B =
Back, UB = Up Back, U = Up, C = Center

--Note:  despite the instructions given here, it is quite easy to
get "random" KH moves simply by circling the joystick & tapping
the buttons.  This is a particularly fun approach to take with
Claudia Silva :-)

Christine Myao

     The youngest KHer's fighting clothes are the most
conservative cut of any female fighter I've seen since Princess
Toadstool.  She favors a pink silk blouse & full-length lavender
silk pants, ruby earrings, and nondescript black shoes.  She
usually wears her brown hair back in a ponytail [or twin
ponytails] & has big, brown eyes.  Christine fights on the night-
lit streets of Hong Kong, waiting eagerly for her big break into
show business [preferably an action movie.]

Weapon:  a long, thin wooden staff that is more damaging than one might  
think.  She has tremendous reach with it; more than any other
KHer.

--Note:   Christine & Claudia are probably the two easiest
characters to play.  Christine in particular is designed to take
out the computer; one of the most effective strategies to get
through the CPU matches quickly is to use her and *exploit her
reach*!  Simply charge your High Attack and let loose with it
when the computer is far away.  This must be done repeatedly for
one to understand how truly useful it is [especially in endurance
matches].
     To whoever asked for a video game where "the babe is the
most potent character around", *this is it!*  [So why aren't you
or anyone else on the Internet playing it, hmmm? :-)]

Lightning Staff ["Huthuthut!  Huthuthut!"]--Christine stands her
     ground & strikes out so quickly with the staff that its end
     blurs in a haze of pink fire.  Yes, this IS very similar to
     the special attack of a Certain Famous SF II Queen...

--tap the High Attack button repeatedly

Charging Attack ["Hai Toh Go!"]--she rushes forward, leaving a
     blur of pink shadows behind her [similar to Johnny Cage's
     Shadow Kick] and knocks down anything in her way.  This
     attack can be blocked [or "sidestepped", as it were, in
     three- or four-player fights].  No one that I've asked knows
     for sure what "Hai Toh Go!" means, at this time.  She has to
     charge this attack.

--Charge B for 2 seconds, then C, F, & tap High or Low Attack.

The Spinning Shield ["Hoh Gah Ti Li!"]--she twirls her staff
     about her head and spins around in place.  This move is
     similar in effect to Zangief's spinning punch.  She can be
     hit out of it, but is immune to fireballs.  It's hard to
     jump in on her, too.  I've been told that "Hoh Gah Ti Li!"
     may mean, "Let's see what you've got!"  This move is not
     charged.

--D, C, U, & High or Low Attack

The Skating Attack ["Hut!"]--she skates forward and back on one
     leg, darting close with incredible speed, while her staff
     traces a fiery figure-eight torus all about her.  It's hard
     to hit her out of this move with ground attacks [although
     CPU Claudia *will* do it almost every time].  A well-timed
     aerial attack can knock her out of it much more easily. 
     Blocking & countering is also possible, albeit tricky.

--D, DF, F, & Low Attack.

Quotes:  "Have a nice day?"  "Yeah!"

--Note:  all KH battle quotes are digital-voice only, not written
as in SF II, Samurai Showdown, etc.  They are therefore rather
tricky to hear correctly.  Any corrections on the Chinese &
Japanese quotes especially are quite welcome!

Claudia Silva

     The other woman on the KH team wears the least of any
fighting female I've seen yet.  Clad in what looks like an
armored bikini of gold [save for the matching, high-heeled golden
boots], Claudia apparently seeks use her attractive & shapely
body to distract her opponents.  Her distinguishing features
include her long red hair, green eyes, and panther's tail.  Yes,
she has a catlike panther's tail, & it twitches constantly.  No
one knows where she comes from, but whispered rumors link her to
the Amazon rainforest...
     Claudia's chosen battleground is in front of the Christ of
the Andes statue [something you will *not* see on the SNES
screen, I promise you! :-)] in nighttime Brazil.

Weapon:  a pair of long, metal claws a la Vega.  In fact, her
great speed & jumping ability [best of the KH group] & the nature
of her special moves are all reminiscent of SF II's masked man.

The Rio Grande Roll ["Yo Hey Toh Tai!"]--Claudia somersaults
forward, kicking at anything behind, above, or before her, and
trailing a flash of yellow fire.  This attack is very effective
for leaping over low fireballs & nailing the thrower.

--D, C, U, & High or Low Attack

The Flying Heel Kick ["Yah!"]--she jumps forward, her outermost
leg extended in a high kicking attack, and trailing golden fire.

--F, D, DF, & High Attack

The Cougar Pounce/Crossing scissors ["Yah!"]--she pounces forward
on all fours like a jungle cat, with her claws crossed in front
of her face.  This attack hits twice; once high, once low.

--U, FU, F, & Low Attack

The Jumping Sobat [sp?] ["Yap!"]--She flips over in the air and
lands on her feet, leaving a trail of gold shadows behind her.

--F, D, DF, & Low Attack

The Colcovard [sp?] Drop ["Yappetataaaaaaaai... HAH!!!"]--she
leaps straight up, so high that she cannot be seen [only her
black, circular shadow marks her location] and lands on an
unsuspecting enemy's head.  Hard.  Then she bounces off.  Claudia
doesn't do backbreakers like Vega [in fact, KH has no air throws
at all].  It is possible to dodge or block this attack
[preferably while charging one's aura], and then strike when she
recovers.

--D, DF, F, F, FU, U & High or Low Attack

Quotes:  "Eat my heart!"  "Come home, babe."

Takeshi Fujioka 

     His battle garb is reminiscent of a fencers'... blue spandex
with white armor, or something.  He has a white headpiece looks a
little like a Tae Kwon Do practice helmet [only it isn't padded]. 
Takeshi's sharp black eyes miss nothing.  He has short, cropped
black hair and a determined expression that is only rarely offset
by a slight half-smile.
     Little is known about Takeshi's origins; he does not
socialize overmuch with the other KHers.  His apparent disdain
for material things have led people to wonder just why he has 
entered a TV game-show contest with a 10 billion dollar grand
prize...
     Takeshi fights on a wooden platform in front of a number of
Japanese spectators [some of whom wear business suits; others
wear traditional dress].

Weapon:  a pair of hand-held scythes connected by a length of
chain, like manriki-gusari.  Does anyone out there know what they
are called in Japanese?

The Dou Huretsu Zen/fireball ["Dou!  Huretsu Zen"]--Takeshi
     flings out a low-flying streak of blue energy.  The streak
     is slow-moving, dissolves on its own after it travels half a
     screen length or so, and will neutralize other fireballs. 
     It takes him a moment to recover from the drain.

--D, DF, F, & High or Low Attack

The Shou Zen/leaping blade attack ["Shou Zen!"]--He leaps
     straight up, holding his mini-scythes in either hand, and
     then falls straight down.  It is impossible to hit him with
     ANY jumping attack when he does this, and it is almost
     impossible to hit him with a standing attack.  Since he is
     dangerous while falling as well as rising, this attack is
     nowhere near as easily blocked and countered as, say, Ryu's
     Dragon Punch.

--D, C, U, & High or Low Attack

The Flying Attack ["OIYAA!"]--While in the air, he suddenly
     hurtles towards his enemy in a type of diagonal cannonball. 
     This attack will knock an opponent down, and is very hard to
     block.  On the other hand, it is relatively easy to knock
     him out of the air if one sees it coming.

--While in the air, F & High or Low Attack [uncertain about the
execution of this move]

Sliding Attack ["OIYAA!"]--he slides forward on the ground,
     leaving a trail of blue shadows behind him.

--D & High or Low Attack [uncertain about the execution of this
move]

The Kick Attack ["Dou!"]--he kicks forward on one hand, while
     trailing blue shadows.  This attack will hit twice.

--U, FU, F, & High Attack

Quotes:  "Haku Chiu!", which could mean "Applause!".  Also
something that sounds a little like "Eat this!"

Rob Vincent

     Rob is dressed curiously like M. Bison... red paramilitary
uniform, shoulder and shin guards, belt, everything save the hat
& cape.  His eyes might be soft blue, his hair reddish-brown
[it's hard to tell.]  He tends to sneer a lot.
     Rob fights on the California beach, surrounded by a mob of
swimsuit-wearing Americans while the "Knuckle Heads" banner flies
overhead.

Weapon:  A pair of nightsticks.  Rob's tendency to charge into
the fray helps make up for their reduced range.

The Blast Wave/fireball ["Blast Force Wave!"]--Rob has two
     fireball attacks.  One produces a small, low-flying flicker
     of flame similar to Takeshi's fireball.  The other produces
     a huge ball of red force that moves fast and does not
     dissolve before it reaches the end of the screen.  Rob needs
     a moment to recover after doing either fireball.

--Charge B, then C, F & High or Low Attack.  [Unsure about how to
choose which type of fireball is done].

The Sliding Kick ["Hah!"]--like Takeshi's move.  Rob slides
     forward on the ground, trailing red shadows behind him. 
     This attack is more dangerous than it looks.

--D, DF, F & Low Attack
 
The Spiral Cutter ["Spiral Cutter!"]--Rob leaps into the air,
     spinning around & around while holding the nightsticks
     outstretched.  Very effective against aerial attacks.

--D, C, U & High or Low Attack

The nightstick uppercut/Tornado Slash ["Hah!"]--Rob jumps
     straight up, very fast, with one nightstick held above his
     head.  A nasty counter & effective against aerial attacks.

--F, DF, D, & High Attack

Quotes:  "I'm number one."

Gregory Darrell

     This guy IS a Viking.  His grey beard and grey eyes make him
prematurely aged, but he's in fact very quick & powerful for his
size.  He wears green slacks, heavy boots, a large plating of
chest armor, and a horned helmet.
     Gregory fights on the gangplanks in front of a dragon-
headed boat, upon which stand a great many cheering Vikings.

Weapon:  A pair of single-edged battle axes

The Normal Burst ["Norman Burst!"]--Gregory slams out his axes on
     either side of him, and pity the poor creature who runs into
     this attack.

--B, C, F, & High or Low Attack

The Tidal Wave ["Tidal WAVE!!!"]--Gregory brings his axes down,
     then up, creating a green surge of energy as deadly as a
     fireball [at least].

--D, DF, F, & High or Low Attack

The Charging Attack/Bastard Head Butt ["RAAH!"]--he runs forward,
     leaving a trail of green shadows behind him, and crashes
     horns-first into whatever's in front of him.  Gregory also
     has a standing head butt [done simply by tapping High Attack
     when close to one's enemy].

--Charge B, then C, F, & High Attack

The Super Crush ["RARGH!"]--he jumps in place, jackknifing and
     whipping out his axes.  This move is a deadly counter to
     aerial attacks.

--D, C, U, & High Attack.

The Piledriver/Hell Diving Backdrop ["Get over here!"]--while not
     as elaborate as Zangief's SPD, it's almost as damaging a
     throw.  He seizes the victim in his hands, holding him above
     the head, bounds high into the air, then crashes down on the
     ground, nearly breaking the unfortunate's back across his
     knee.  Then he leaps away.

--When in throwing distance [which is of a greater range than any
other KH throw],  F, F, & High or Low Attack

Quotes:  "I'll KILL YOU!"  <maniacal laughter>

Blat Vaike

     This dwarfish, hunched over fighter is more dangerous than
he appears.  He wears some armor, a plain helmet, and a grey
cape.  He never speaks, but will laugh in your face.
     He fights in front of what might be the Parthenon... while
numerous toga-clad & wreath-wearing countrymen watch.  Rumor has
it that Blat is dead broke.

Weapon:  one HUGE, spiked green hammer.

The Mad Hammer ["YAI hah heh ho HAI!"]--Blat dances in place,
     twirling the hammer every which way above his head.  An
     effective counter to aerial attacks.

--B, C, F & High or Low Attack, or tap High Attack repeatedly
[unsure about this move's execution]

The Anger of the Beast ["Yah-WHEE-hee-yah-WHEE-hee-yah-WHEE-
     hee!"]--Blat propels his hammer forward and spirals towards
     his opponent in this rushing attack.  It takes a couple of
     seconds to charge.

--Charge B for 2 seconds, then C, F, & High or Low Attack

Rolling Madness ["Rawk!"]--All that can be seen of Blat is his
     cape as he rolls forward on the ground.  This attack is more
     effective than it looks, especially against aerial attacks,
     but can be blocked & countered.

--D, DF, F & Low Attack

The Slam Attack/Arscreik [sp?] Hammer--Blat suddenly jumps
     forward in the air and brings his hammer crashing down on
     the enemy's head.  Very painful.

--U, FU, F, & High Attack

Quotes:  "Hahahahaha!"  "Eeaw!"

Basic anti-computer strategies:

1)   Charge your High Attack aurora & wait for the computer to
leap into the air.  Execute your aurora-charged attack when it
does, thus nailing the computer out of the air.  Christine's the
easiest one to pull this trick off with, probably followed by
Takeshi & Gregory.  It's not so hard with Claudia if you're right
under your aerial opponent.  The computer is less likely to set
itself up when it's low on energy, though.

2)   Charge your aurora and then jump towards your opponent,
still charged & still holding the button down.  Release the
button in mid-air or when you're pouncing on your opponent to
execute a powerful aerial attack, which will really hurt them &
possibly even knock them down if they don't block.  If they do
block, then the attack might possibly be followed up with
Christine's Lightning Staff, or some other special attack, or
simply with a couple of quick Low Attacks.

3)   Remember, the energy meter is deceptive.  The more damaged
you or your opponent is, the less that successive attacks will
injure you [or them].  This is a balancing feature that makes it
easier for you [or your opponent(s)] to recover from losing half
your energy, and tends to put the outcome of the fight in doubt
until someone is stretched out on the ground.  Or, to be cliche,
"It ain't never over 'till it's over".

4)   Note that matchups are not the same as the "best two out of
three" format for SF II [although they are quite similar].  You
are replenished with two hearts at the beginning of every
matchup; when you lose both heats, then the game is over.  If
time runs out, then the battle goes to the fighter with the most
energy; in the case of double knockouts or draws ["No Winner"
battles], *both* participants lose a heart.  If two or more
participants all lose the last of their hearts at the same time,
then the game is over for both [or all] of them.  

5)   VS CPU Claudia:  charge your aurora while simultaneously
blocking her Colcovard drop, then release your High aurora Attack
to nail her as she rebounds

6)   VS CPU Christine:  Lots of low attacks, especially if you're
using Claudia.

7)   VS CPU Gregory & Blat:  Mix strategies #1 & #2 liberally.

8)   VS Takeshi & Rob:  rely more upon strategy #1 & be
     defensive, unless you can tell they're about to throw a
     fireball; then jump over it & nail 'em, if you can.

9)   VS the computer in endurance matches--remember, the two CPU
fighters *can* and *will* hurt one another, if you trick them
into it.  Do NOT get trapped between them; if you do get trapped,
then try to escape by throwing one of them, or with a special
move that strikes out on both sides, or by "sidestepping" away. 
Try to trap one of them between yourself in the other, and keep
him or her trapped by pounding relentlessly with quick Low
Attacks.  If you've just thrown one opponent & the other is
standing nearby, chances are you can throw him, too, while the
moment is yours.  Fall back on strategies #1 & #2, & when all
else fails, try spinning off a defensive special attack [the
computer is not as intelligent in these matches, & tends to just
charge into you a lot].

10)   You can tick the computer, sometimes, especially off air
attacks.  Of course, the computer can also tick you back. 
Ticking is not usually effective against the golden doppelganger,
though.

11)   Quick Low Attacks with the correct timing & spacing can
often cut through special attacks.  Many special attacks
[Christine's "Hai Toh Go!" charge, Gregory's "Anger of the
Beast", etc.] leave the computer *or* humans vulnerable to being
thrown if they are blocked & if the throw is executed at the
right time.

Golden Doppelganger

     Also called "Midas Man", the last, CPU opponent is a shape-
shifter, but unlike Geegus and Shang Tsung in that its true form
has never been seen.  Also unlike Geegus and Shang Tsung, it
never "morphs" into different forms during the one-on-one battle-
-it ALWAYS maintains the shape of whoever is currently dealing
with it, and will assume none other until it must fight with a
new person.  
     If one wishes to battle the golden doppelganger, one must
first take on the other five fighters, then survive three
"endurance matches" [two CPU fighters vs. the player] all by
oneself.  Should a second player join in at any time in this
process, then all one's progress is erased and one must once
again start over from the beginning.  
     The doppelganger's greatest strength is that it is deadly
fast with the attacks and special techniques of whoever it
impersonates.  It has few patterns once it reaches 1/4 health or
so, and although it is easy to weaken, it is very tough to
defeat.  

Quotes:  Whatever the character who fights it usually says.

Strategies Against:

With Christine Myao--learn to anticipate when the doppelganger
will suddenly spring its skating attack, leap forward at the
right time, and knock it out of the move [preferably with an
aerial aura attack].
     Also learn to anticipate its charging attack; you can block
and then either counter or throw it if your timing is right.  Use
your special attacks at your own risk [although the Lightning
staff can be effective *if* you're careful not to do it too
close, or keep doing it for too long].  Watch out for the
Spinning Shield when you jump in!  This match may be the 2nd
easiest to do.

With Claudia Silva--charge your aura attack, and then use it in
the air when jumping in on her.  Be careful not to land too close
to her, or she'll throw you.  Learn to block & counter her
Colcovard drop; this edge may well give you the match.  Ideally,
block the attack while charging your aura, then let lose with
your High aura attack *just* as she bounces off.  You will do a
somersaulting swoop that takes her out almost every time.  This
match is by far the easiest of the doppelganger battles.

With Takeshi Fujioka--charge your aura attack from the very start
of the match, if not before; the doppelganger will leap at you
almost every time.  Then nail him with your high aura attack. 
You can repeat this pattern [charging your aura, then slicing the
doppelganger out of the air when it jumps at you] up to three
times, usually, but when the doppelganger gets low on energy it
probably won't set itself up any more.
     If you're fast with the fireballs, try to block its kicking
or sliding attacks and then nail it when its vulnerable.  Be
careful--when the doppelganger is low on energy, its favorite
tactic is to corner you just out of throwing range and stand
there, waiting for you to strike it... the moment you do, it will
block & then knock you down with an aura attack... then it will
wait for you to get up and strike it again, so that the patten
can repeat.  Sometimes the best tactic to deal with this ****
menace is simply to block and wait for it to strike you, then
counter.  While one does risk getting thrown by means of this
strategy, it is still remarkably effective [i.e.:  you can
actually *win*, dammit] if done carefully enough.

With Rob Vincent--be careful when jumping in on the doppelganger;
it isn't shy about showing off its Spiral Cutter & Tornado Slash. 
*But*, if you time them right, aerial aura attacks [especially
over its fireballs] can help you a great deal.  Watch for it to
jump in on you, then be sure to knock it out of the air [ideally
with a special attack--don't underestimate the effectiveness of
your sliding attack for this purpose].  Large Blast Force Waves
from across the screen are also good, and if you can get a
fireball trap going, then so much the better.  This is probably
the 3rd easiest doppelganger match, with the other three all
being equally hard.

With Gregory Darrell--You can usually strip away over half of its
energy by knocking it out of the air with your High aura Attack
when it leaps, or jumping and kicking out with your aerial aura
attacks.  *But*, it will usually take to staying on the ground &
countering your aerial strikes when it gets low on energy.  At
times the only thing that is advisable to do is spin off your
standing special attacks [Tidal Wave, Norman Burst, Super Crush]
and wait for it to impale itself on them.  The Norman Burst in
particular is an ideal counter to its Bastard Head Butt.

With Blat Vaike--Again, you can usually get it low on energy by
countering with high aura attacks when it jumps in on you, but
once it's suitably injured, it will take to staying on the
ground.  Learn to block its Anger of the Beast attack and then
hit it or throw it right out of the move.  Be careful with aerial
or special attacks; when it's low on energy it likes to block
them and then counter with its Arscreik Hammer.  But one can
often get some effective combinations on it, typically an aerial
attack followed up by the Mad Hammer or the Rolling Madness.  Use
the Anger of the Beast at your own risk!  

The Host

     The game show host has hair like Guile's and Galford's.  He
wears a white tuxedo, a pert white bow tie, and shiny black
leather shoes.  He is never seen without his microphone and his
little purple pocket scarf.  When hosting the TV show/fighting
competition, he is as cheery and expressive as possible, & likes
to make big, sweeping gestures with his hands.
     The Host does not fight in the KH competition; he controls
it.  He sets up and announces the matches, and all six
contestants call him "sir".  He is mentioned here not only
because of his behind-the-scenes pull upon the KHers, but also
because of certain shady rumors about him, and about his REAL
job...

Quotes:  "Welcome!"  "Next up... [last name of new opponent]"

Bethany Cox

--"Is anyone out there doing something like this for Martial
Champions?" :-)


