
Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^50 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Black Forban         ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/17/89  09:52:28 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mad Rogue (#126)          ^

I don't understand why you posted that msg. considering it was understood
already!

[Board #11][Msg (50 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^51 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Hacking                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/20/89  12:00:43 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

There's something that all may be interested in... It's not illegal to HACK
codes... They can't do anything at all to you for doing it...

                      Using them, that's something else!

[Board #11][Msg (51 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^52 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^yeah right.              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/21/89  02:12:01 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Goose (#2)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)         ^

  Yeah, well, tell that to Gene(Dark Angel).  He's without a system and
waiting for a nice long jail sentence.   The only thing he's got going
for him is that it's his first offense and they will probably go easy on him.
The main reason he got busted WASN'T because he was using the codes, it was
because he was hacking and the company had to change the codes every single day
until they got him. (that's why the codes were dying 1 day after he hacked
them).  He didnt even get a chance to rack up any serious ammounts on the codes
because they were dying so fast.   Not to mention the fact that 15 codes in
your possesion (whether or not you've used hem) is still a felony.

                                           -Goose

[Board #11][Msg (52 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^53 of 255                 ^
Z^SubjectZ^Wrong                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^08/21/89  04:08:21 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#3)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^Wishbringer (#2)          ^

I suggest you have your friend get a decent lawyer.... Dose't have to be a
good one just a decent one.

Possesion of information is NOT a crime and that's a guarantee... What ta hell,
I know a lot of things that I'm not supposed to kow and if someone tries to
arrest me for having the knowledge and attempts to prosecute me for it I'll be
RICH beyond my wildest dreams.

Knowing certain things is an individals privelidge.  Hacking... dosen't matter
about it at all.  If they bust into his house and see him hacking away on his
machine that's invasion of privacy.  If they bust into is house and see codes
laying around and know for certain that he's been using codes illegally, like I
said, that's another matter.  Here's the way it works.

Circumstantial vidence is a concept that is believed but cannot be proven.
Evidence Prima Face is when they have the shit and can prove that you are doing
something illegal...  You have the code, they traced calls to your phone and
you're sitting there with your hand in the cookie jar... that's yer ass!

Having a code in your possesion and them not having absolute proof that you
used it... They can't legally do shit <----  Unless you let them!

[Board #11][Msg (53 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^54 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Dark Angel               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/21/89  08:37:53 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#8)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Goose                 ^

How old is Gene?

                                 -Hacky Tacky-
                                  /Co-Sysop/

[Board #11][Msg (54 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^55 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^DAngel                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/22/89  10:33:42 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Goose (#201)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  He's 19.  They had a trace on his line, hich IS proof that he hacked the
codes.  If that's not proof, what is?   Like I said, they knew EVERY # he
dialed for 1 month.   He called my work a few times, and then I clickd on a
cheap conference button(the kind on cheap conference phones) and they
questioned him about those numbers, which sucked because at the time, I was
testing out codes for nother system.  They even knew how long he was hacking
the night before he got busted.


[Board #11][Msg (55 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^56 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/23/89  03:42:26 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^keone (#369)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

950-0266's -> 7066221
              9043598

18006341833-> 1000 + acn
              1111
              1234
              2000
              2222
              3000
              3333
              4000
              4444
              5000
              5555
              6000
              6666
              7000
              7777
              8000
              8888
              9000
              9999

keone - use and abuse

[Board #11][Msg (56 of 255)][Command][->Next





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^57 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^CC                       ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/23/89  09:07:07 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#8)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^keone (#369)              ^

Anyone have any Visa CC #'s..please post some up....

Thanx

                                 -Hacky Tacky-

[Board #11][Msg (57 of 255)][Command][->Dump





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^58 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^hack/phreak..            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/25/89  07:32:03 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Blackbeard..              ^

  Do you mean that if you scan for codes it not illegal? Then if you get one
it is because you have to set it to a carrier right? Well what if i set it to
save busy signals..then would it be legal cause i'm not putting any charges
on the account..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^59 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Pcp Codes                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/26/89  12:53:23 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Paladin C (#9)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Anyone have any new PCP codes? They go real fast in 216. You peole hear about
The Rebel? Real shame, he ran one hell of a system ( Apple rebel ) and he was a
great guy. He will be missed...

-P.C





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^60 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Hacking...               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/30/89  04:27:14 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Lord Zeus (#50)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Hacking codes still constitutes use of the elephone company's equipment
(namely, their computer), so it is still illegal.  Think of it this way - if
you had a BBS and someone had a dictionary on their computer and was calling
and trying out each account number/word combination - would you like it?  Both
are similarly aggravating [to the respective parties involved].

You use their equipment, you pay.  It's still <their> computer time - and
mainframe time can run into thousands in just a few CPU seconds.

-lz/declan





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^61 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^well                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/30/89  11:57:58 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dark Angel (#312)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

 Well as you might have guessed, I got busted. They took all my stuff. Every
scrap of paper. A zillion codes written down. I got busted for the hacking as
well as the use, so whoever said that you couldnt get busted for hacking, you
were wrong.  Ill let you know exactly what appens in the future.

-Dark Angel





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^62 of 255                 ^
Z^Subjct^Z^{                        ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^08/31/89  01:29:27 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^keone (#369)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                      ^

0266's - 3410044
         3734766
         5589721

keone





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^63 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^NOTICE                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/31/89  06:31:43 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE CREATOR (#17)       ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Buy one share in the phone company you will fool around with...

then:LEGALLY - THEY CAN NOT TOUCH YOU ECAUSE YOU ARE PART OWNER OF IT!
                                                      ----------





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^64 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^notice                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/01/89  01:18:12 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^keone (#369)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)        ^

interesting concept... however the can take your share away or if you sell your
busted and they still have the evidence which is good for 7 years..

keone





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^65 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Shares?                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/02/89  04:47:48 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Lord Zeus (#50)          ^ Z^To     ^ZAll                       ^

Just because you're "part oner" does not make you exempt from any o the laws.
You still can't call long distance for free, and you still can't get discounts
on service.  And you can't commit any crimes against the company/corporation.
If youowned 51% of the shares, that's a different story, but not many here are
in that kind of financial situation.

-lz/declan





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^66 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^e: notice               ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^09/04/89  03:57:17 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^keone (#369)              ^

Explain how they can take your share away!!!

It's on the Public Market!
If!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^67 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^share                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/04/89  11:15:54 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mach Three (#28)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)        ^

I don't think they can take your stock away, but that won't stopthem from
busting you if hey are able.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^68 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: share                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  12:39:38 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mach Three (#28)          ^

I still think that owning shares in the company offers some protection.

And I do agree that THE MORE YOU OWN THE SAFER YOU ARE...

15% of it is enough to insure you protection...

As with most companies....owning 10% can make you a major stockholder!

However if one could do that then one wouldn't need to do it as the dividens
would more than pay for the calls!!!

How about we do a MASSIVE CAMPAIGN across North America, we get users to send
in money so that we can buy out 100's of thousands of shares of a phone company
then we would have more fun & say in the telcom world of today!

How about that!  A legal way to take off, and a good hacker's way to have
fun... test...etc............POWER! <POW!>





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^69 of 25                  ^
Z^Subject^Z^Hummm...                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  05:53:37 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)        ^


Hummm... Sounds great !!!

BUT it would take a lot, and when I say "a lot", I really mean "A LOT" of
hackers to buy 10% of Bell or another big one...

        That's oly a dreammmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm !

                                        The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^70 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Naw..                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  08:15:03 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#8)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)    ^


Naw forget it.. Lets keep going against the PHONE conpanies and FOR ourselves..

                                 Hacky Tacky-
                                  /Co-Sysop/





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^71 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Naw..                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  09:53:32 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE CREATOR (#317)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#8          ^

I don't agree...imagine a safe realm for hackers....aha!

and with dividends stock purchase plans instead of cash.....we gain more
control without buying more shares.....


there's a min. of a million hackers out there....imagine the possibilities...

Hey wait a minute...Since hackers' know so much....why don't we make a phone
company....with backers it is possible, and backing isn't hardconsidering
telecommunication is very competitive and large......





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^72 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Hackers                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  10:41:02 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Lord Zeus (#50)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Ok.  Think, all.  Telecommunication companies are BIG [we're talking a
multibillion dollar industry, easily].  AT&T probably gets a billion in profit
a year.  But they stay big because they charge a lot for ld services [and local
ones, as the case may be].

If a bunch of enterprising hackers were to gain a plurality of the shares in a
decently-sized corporation [by investing perhaps a few hundred million
dollars], and start giving out free phone service - it would be ABUSED.
Everyone would tell his phreaking buddy about it - the novel gnu way to call ld
legally...  Then your profits would die, the company would go down, and the
other stockholders would kick you out, or organize against you in a coup.

And you couldn't keep it a secret - too many people would know about it, since
you'd need the influx of funds to purchase the shares.  And, since you have so
much money, why not just rent a WATS line or something and share that, and even
sublet it?

All this talk is just idealistic drivel; after all, I don't have a few hundred
million dollars to spend [or even a substantial percentage of that sum] - and,
if I did, I'd buy a anniversary Lambo [and bike], and invest the rest in NeXT
when it goes public.

-lz/declan





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^73 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Hackers              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/05/89  11:46:21 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^Lord Zeus (#50)           ^

I have the solution. All we have to do is to organise an universal Syndicate
with a small fee. With that money we can pay some lawyer for those member in
court and another part to buy some loto tiket. Ha ha ha ha ha!

HA! HA!...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^74 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^1-der-ful                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/06/89  08:44:31 AM     ^
                                       Z^To     ^Z^Sysop                     ^

That's the ticket HA HA!

It's the way that the mob does things... They do all their corrupt stuff and
when one of their own gets busted a lawyer gets them off the hook.  Anyway, the
main idea for hackers is to get phree stuff, not stock manipulation etc.

By if we had an attorney, (of fleet of attorneys), on hand to set back the
gestapo when they came storming after our equipment... MOMMA MIA!






      Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)        ^





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^75 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Phreaking eh?            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/06/89  01:15:05 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Stanstead Hick (#136    ^  Z^To     ^Z^The Creator               ^

If one looks back to the origin of phreaking, it's purpose was not financially
rlated.. This is for FUN, not for cash, and as soon as you confuse the two,
you're not a phreak anymore, you're just another guy who took advantage of a
good thing.

I think I've explained myself properly.

Stanstead Hick





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^76 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^This crap                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/08/89  07:04:44 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dark One (#86)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Dream on people.  Listen, I know it whould be nice, But after you buy your
shares or whatever, You are now a "responsible" owner, People will deal, cheat
and rip you off to get you shares.. (mabey)

But, by the time you pay for aa few phone bills you will have paid a few
shares..   Besides  does't that take all the phun outta phreaking?..  It whould
be nice,, In Canada tho, Bell is pretty stuck up.. bunch od asses, they charge
too much, and offer TTOOOO  and i mean TOOO LITTLE discounts or shit, thay are
the only phone company (i think)   in Canada, Please   AT&T or someone come
here.. Bell needs the competition..  I hate phone $$$.....





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^77 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^..                       ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/8/89  09:52:23 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#8)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Dark One (#86)        ^


Well you know... If you get busted and you have shares with the company, and
you don't pay up, they'll clean out your shares to pay the bill.. Think of
that...

                                 -Hacky Tacky-
                                  /Co-Sysop/





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^78 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: This crap            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/09/89  12:12:55 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Dark One (#86)        ^

You got it Nick. Last week i got my bill with a paper explaining good news
They say that I can now use a new service for my call waiting. you know
the *70 or 1170 on a rotary phone to bypass the the call waithing. You have
that for about 1 or 2 year in the state.

For the competion; It is impossible to have that here because it's managed by
the Canadian Governement.

HA! HA!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^79 of 255                 ^
                                       Z^Dates  ^Z^09/09/89  04:40:34 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Captain Harlock (#260)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

7150,1316
PW: COOLLY:WHALE












     Z^Subject^Z^COMPUSERVE              ^





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^80 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^800-333-0126             ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/16/89  12:2115 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^n                         ^

  This dial up seem to go on and off..maybe they stiched numbers..if anyone
could find the new dial up i'll give'em a mess of codes off of there..the
company is Westel..I already have the 950 but it only works in Ca..I use the
950..this is just so you people can use it..hehe..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^81 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^0266                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/19/89  06:31:38 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  Heres a 0266: 2391769..its fairly new..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^82 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Busted                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/23/89  02:01:18 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Apple Tree (#133)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Ok Guys.... 950-1001 is busting folks.... really....  g#Guy just lost his
entire computer setup to the ass holes at Mid-America 950-1001 so hack it at
your own expense!!u!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^83 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^ok...                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/30/89  09:02:47 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Master (#90)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^Apple Tree (#133)         ^

Then try this...950-1007.....763789....acn...

                                  The Master





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange   Z^Number ^Z^84 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: ok...                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/11/89                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Master (#90)          ^

I was call around lately and noticed that someone mentioned a co. called
Northwest telco....anyone know anything about tat one?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^85 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: ok...                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/15/89  08:03:12 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Sherlock Ohms (#301)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^Anoymous User             ^


I have NorthWest TelePhone Co. where I live.  It's a small telco in rurl
Wisconsin.  Whatda wanna know about it?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^86 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: ok...                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/15/89                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Sherlock Ohms (#301)      ^

What format do they use





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^87 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/29/89  02:17:00 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Casanova (#40)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

0266s:  8499015, 9903809, 7744976, 3590117, and 7713486.


        Casanova

p.s.  courtesy of FunTime GS





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^88 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/03/89  05:26:19 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Casanova (#40)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


0266:  7260667
       7260252
       7191213
       4731800
       3590117





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^89 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODES                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/13/89  06:46:04 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^keone (#369)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


0266

0235712
1667714
       4701475
0437725
7733013
4586618
4124395
1208128
4120515
9076961
5584981
3665132
6037402

KEONE





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^90 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codes for 716 area code  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/14/89  08:35:54 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Trigon the Destroyer (#95^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Anyone out there have some codes that will work for the 716 area code?  That's
the upstate New York Area.  0266 doesn't work.  I don't think any 950's will
work, but I need something.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^91 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Codes for 716 area co^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/18/89  01:21:15 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Apple Tree (#133)        ^ Z^To     Z^Trigon the Destroyer (#95)^

Ok whay 950's will work for you?  950-0266's don't so what does... Need to be
specific!!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exhange ^  Z^Number ^Z^92 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^MW TEL                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/19/89  02:03:15 PM    ^
Z^Author ^Z^Sherlock Ohms (#301)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^Apple Tree (#133)        ^


Some one a bit back wanted to know what format NorthWest Telephone Co. used.
Well, that's the name of the phone co in my area.  It's a phone company, not a
LD service.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^93 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^0266's                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/22/89  01:51:35 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Troooper (#163)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

0266:

8347833
8177481

after reading the last 5 messages or so... i looks like things are beginning
to look up for the code scene.. but so all those codes really work?  I hate it
when people post codes that dont work...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^94 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Stuff                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/22/89  09:46:37 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Casanova (#40)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Troooper (#163)       ^


Look at the date to determine whether they still work or not...


Casanova





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^95 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/11/90  07:41:20 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Metal Gear (#83)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

 really need 1 or more than if you have please post it..thanks.

MG





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^96 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/15/90  03:16:15 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^keone (#36)             ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

That was a little helpful hint for those that hate trying codez! another is to
hack them out yourself!

0266 - 1873523

PS - Casanova, do you still call the meatl edge?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^97 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Code                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/15/90  06:06:28 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here's One:

1803467033: 182441

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^98 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Code                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/16/90  06:17:36 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE BIT (#340)           ^ Z^To    ^Z^ALL]                      ^

Ok here a 0488:
1222489234527

have fun!


_____
  |
  |he Bit.......





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^99 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^PcP etc...               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/31/90  03:36:18 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


Hi !

I'm desperatly seeking a way of calling the USA ld from Montreal but I can't
seem to find a way to call there with some codes...

I have a whole bunch of codes (DataPac NUA's) to access PcP nodes in the whole
US but when I enter the NUA, DataPac replies: "collect call refused (4502)" or
something like this. Cn anybody tell me what I should do to get through ?!

As an example, one of the NUA's is 131104150022000, it's for PcP in San
Francisco CA...

Leave me some news please !
                                               The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^100 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/04/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)    ^

Forget Datapak for Codez, it's semms weird to tell you that, but you can reach
usa with ALEX!!! more info will come when my friend will be back from SWEDEN

l8tr

W.W.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^101 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^pcp city codes           ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/04/90  02:54:15 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mystic One (#103)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                       ^

I was wondering if anyone out there had an complete listing of the area codes
and there word codes for pcp. I am very stupid about this but i don't know what
areas that are in pcp's range. like CALAN for california and such. Is there any
complete listing of all of them?


                                Mystic One...
,.s





Z^Board  ^Z^Pheaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^102 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFOOOOOOOOOO^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/04/90  07:11:26 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bill Brownstone (#44)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

WHAT THE FUCK IS THE FORMAT FOR 0488?
I've been asking that questiion for years

     *>Bill<*





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^103 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/04/90  08:53:49 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^Bill Brownstone           ^

0488 was my first code ever...anyways, it's:
950-0488+ACN+13digit code

Later,
Mike the Great

P.S.  If you get a dial tone after that, that means it obviously doesn't work.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^104 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/05/90  07:05:20 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bill Brownstone (#44)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^

Got any layin around?

     *>Bill<*





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^105 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/05/90  11:20:55 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Well, this isn't exactly laying around, but here is one 0488:
1403974183790

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^106 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/06/90  03:40:16 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bill Brownstone (#44)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)      ^

Are us ure this works and isn't a phony one that u made up?

     *>Bill<*





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exhange ^  Z^Number ^Z^107 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/08/90  01:08:34 A     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^Bill                      ^

No, it wasn't a phony one I made up.  That's what I used to call this place.  I
can't call here with US Operatrs, so I either call direct or with a code.  And
that's what I used, apparently it died the next day.  Why the fuck would I make
one up?

Mike the Great





Z^Board  Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^108 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^New Users                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/18/90  11:26:49 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Apple Tree (#133)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)      ^

Hummm.. Those who don't know sure bitch and gripe a lot!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^109 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/18/90  09:43:17 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

ye tellin me....anyways, here's another code WHICH I'm using at the moment, so
if it dies, don't go blaming me:

1-800-292-3044+ACN+5031697576

Just listen to the instructionsthe computer voice gives ya, I can't get it to
work with my proterm, it would be too long a line for the modem.

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Numbe ^Z^ 110 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/18/90  09:46:07 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

oh yeah, forgot something, here's a GEnie account, PLEASE PLEASE don't change
the password, because if you do, 1) I won't put anymore on this board, and 2)
they'll just die anyways because the person who owns the account will realize
it was change and call up GEnie and then yer screwed.  So use it, but don't
abuse it.  Wellllll, abuse it in the sense that you can stay on as long as you
want...YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN!  Anyways, later

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^111 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^So?                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/19/90  03:58:49 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Stanstead Hick (#136)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)      ^

So where is it?

Sth





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^112 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: GEnie                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/23/90  01:52:39 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^ICE BREAKER (#141)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^MikeThe Great (#76)      ^

Aren't you forgetting something?!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^113 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/23/90  02:05:48 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^ICE BREAKER (#141)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here's a couple of new ones .
0266's -1, 362 5265953, 7316371.
s -4643483790, 4173970183790, 0899079382015.
One more 0266 - 108349.
1007's - 993262.
Thats all I got for now, but I'll try and hack some more next week.  These
should lst at least a week or two, depending how much there spread around. I
woulden't worry though, I'll make sure all of ya have enough to last each week.
Anyone need anything?  Talk to me.

                       Ib (Aaron)





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^114 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                   ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^02/25/90  02:11:48 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                       ^

AWwwww....SHIT, I can't believe I forgot to post it, was too busy rambling
on....doesn't matter, it died that night...::sigh::....ok, I might as well gve
out one I had for myself (since I phucked up that other post), I've only
postedf this here:  (try not to use the cb too much)
xtx94953,abtemsqd

There, I remembered

Mie the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^115 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^PHORTRESS ELITE GS..     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/25/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL..                     ^

   Ok..umm..Dragonslayer wants more H/P sorta people w/ 9600's on his board
 so Call it at 201-784-8027 and chat or leave feedback with him and ask
 :"Hows the weather" to get access to the H/P section..tell'em The Prowler
sent ya too so I get some credi for this stupid post.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^116 of 255                ^
Z^Subect^Z^GEnie                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^02/25/90  10:54:50 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                      ^

::sigh.::, well, I asked for the people not to go in the Cb Simulator on that
account I posted for GEnie.  Unfortunately, some people do not know hw to
listen, I made this account for myself, and felt stupid because I forgot to
post that other account before.  Now that someone was fucking around in the CB,
that account wn't make it thru the next 2 or 3 days.  Good one guys....next
account I have people can ask for it thru mail if they want it.  Later

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^117 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Vmb's                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/01/90  12:39:22 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^ICE BREAKER (#141)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  I need a VMB.  I am willing to trade some virgin Credit Cards forgood one.
Leme know.

                             Ice Breaker,
                                           The Corleone Family





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^118 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie.                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/02/90  04:32:08 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike                      ^

   Does GEnie have toll numbers or do you call it by using their 800 numbers?
 I think toll numbers are little safer..but what the hell..who's the Program
 Prolwer guy?? It's almost like he's copying my handle..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^119 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Pseudo                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/03/90  12:50:57 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Program Prowler (#70)^ Z^To     ^Z^The Prowler (#23)         ^

        Well....  I've had this pseudo for about 5yrs now, yours is the first
that even comes close to mine, makes me ask the same question about you.
Not to worry though, I live in Ottawa so there shouldn't be too much of a
problem distinguishing us apart.

                            The Program Prowler (!)





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^120 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/03/90  04:19:11 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Prowler               ^

I made the account via their 1-800 line....I USE Genie via their toll lines,
they should have local acces lines in every major (and some minor)
cities....usually 2, a 2400 and a 300/1200.  I heard Bladerunner got busted for
making a fake account thru the 1-800 line....I'm trying to decide whether or
not to do that again....maybe if I had a divertor...:)  Anyways, that other
account is dead now, I'll try and get a new one soon, but people will hafta ask
thru mail if they want it.  Later

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^121 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/03/90  01:36:55 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^Mike and Prowler          ^


Hi !

Concerning GEnie access lines, I know there are some non-800 lines in major
cities. Here in Montreal I use the 333-1117 which is not an 800 number...

Mike ==> Tell me from which city you're calling and I'll try to find the direct
access phone number. (I know a friend who's on GEnie and who might have a list
of phone numbers)... BTW: How do you open a fake account ?! Giving false
information over voice line ...?

        Anyway, leave me some news !

                                                        The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^122 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Handle                  ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^03/03/90  07:05:57 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Program Prowler       ^

   Hehe..your 1 1/2 yrs late...well anyways I don't really care...

   Black Forban: Do you think you can find the Genie dial up for San Jose,
                 Santa Clara, Mountain View, Or Sunnyvale? In California..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^123 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/03/90  10:23:03 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^AKK                       ^

whoa....I used to have an account on GEnie, I have the local acces for my city.
I'll try to find the numbers for the places you asked for.  I think I still
have my list I got when I had my account.  I make the fake ones over the MODEM.
 I call their 1-800 line, type the demo account, and it gives youa chance to
type in all the info for a new account.  They SUPPOSEDLY voice verify,but I
never had to sit at school by the payphone and wait, I jes got validated.
Ummm>j....to call and make the GEnie accounts, the 1-800 line is:
1-800-638-9636....type HHH (uh), then the demo account is: xjm11786,GEnie.
That should get you under way, anyone who makes any accounts, I would
appreciate if ya could spread the wealth over here..:)

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^124 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^NY                       ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/04/90  02:17:05 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Trigon the Destroyer (#95^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Dose anyone know of any phreak numbers for Rochester, New York.  All the ones i
have seen up here don't work.

Thnks
                       Trigon





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^125 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^cODES!                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/06/90  03:23:10 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Eternal Sage (#82)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

oKAY, HERE i GO...
950-0266'S
9788763 3449123 1317968 1257900 1255900
3654149 9240074 5399378 5327742 6264527
0488'S (oR 1800easyitt)
187478857155
817350764812
wAIT, +A 2 oR SOMETHING...
843-3313'S
307XXX
XXX=646 976 046 856 286 766 466 826 963 496
aLL SHOULD WORK.
292-3044'S
5031695770
5031696061
mOrE ltEr!!!!!!!!(?)!!!!!!
tHAZZIT!        -)
        ---The Eternal Sage





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^126 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/06/90  10:10:27 PM     ^
Z^Author ^ZHacky Tacky (#8)         ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


The following Courtesy of The Ocean Side Bar/ 609-429-8487

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


0266:
4491232
9260074
5399378
3449123
6264527
6132226
5327742
9758874

0488:
1936470857155
1876478857155
8437364801973
3369218648699
2791338595266
8856478857155
8286475857155
7856475857155
1426475857155

9696: <---suicidal
974403
974032

3636: <---suicidal too
231311

Bridge:
415-924-0317

PBX's:
503-644-4004+777+9+1900#
1800-843-3313+307xx6   <----traces!!!
              xx=49, 82, 40, 64, 97, 85, 28

Loops:
214-224-4774 and 4775
416-591-116 and 1187

MCI Radius:
416-865-9444+4564

1800-292-3044+acn+code   <---class B ANI, gets area code and prefix
         code=5031695770

0266:
5327742
6964142
1666706
6132226
9758874

0488:
5239213648699
093921064899
020211648699
7259219648699

Loop:
214-224-4774 and at 4775

1800-334-3546+643309
              623841
              655565
              696642
             623592
              647309
              656234

1800-843-3313+307xxx    <-----has class C ANI, gets WHOLE PHONE NUMBER!!
             xxx=646,706,766,926,046,826,496,963856,286,796,766,963,493

Diverter:
1800-448-xxxx
     xxxx=6400,7100

1800-292-3044+acn+code     <----has class B ANI, gets aea cod an prfix
            ode=50369464





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^127 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^GEnie                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/09/90  02:58:32 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


Hi !

I will try to find access numbers for cities you guys asked...

I'll also try to open an account from Montreal (direct).

                                       I'll leave ya some news !
        The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^128 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Sad News                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/10/90  01:15:01 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here in the Bay area, 1007 is history... It was owned by  Westel and they
billed quarterly. After the dorks pounded 262938 the unit has gone kaputt!

Now none of the 1007's work.  A message is activated as soon as ProTerm dials
9501007w...

Sigh! 'tis a sad state  of affairs!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^129 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Heres                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/14/90  18:42:21        ^
Z^Author ^Z^King Tut (#158)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

one, or two that work as of now!:

o488:

0659217648699

3627114083311

                        Have phune
                                       King tut





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^130 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^another                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/20/90  02:01:24        ^
Z^Author^Z^King Tut (#158)          ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

one!

488:

7587110083311

                                King Tut





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^131 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Ya                       ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/24/9  01:10:28        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ghost (#168)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

Um....try 0511

423990





Z^Board ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^132 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^or try                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/24/90  20:39:17        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dreamer (#176)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^Ghost (#168)              ^

800-248-8034
-------------
512634





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exhange ^  Z^Number ^Z^133 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Or even                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/25/90  23:0:18        ^
Z^Author ^Z^King Tut (#158)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


 try

0511:

269261

                       King Tut





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^134 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Or even              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/28/90  15:44:30        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Midian (#343)            ^ Z^To     ^Z^King Tut (#158)           ^

        What company is 950-0511???

.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^135 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^MCI                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/01/90  06:48:12        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#2)         ^ Z^To     ^^All                       ^

I'm in need of some MCI Codez, if you have any, please post them, if not post
send me some mail private and we'll do it that way..

                                 Hacky Tacky
                                   Co-Sysop





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^136 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^EUOPEAN EXCHANGE...      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/01/90  23:07:03        ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

WOULD ANY OF YOU PEOPLE HAVE THE EUROPEAN EXCHANGE CODES??





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^137 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^anyway                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/02/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)           ^

Hello, I'm looking for a decent hacker...O have a IIgs and a really shitty code
hacker. Whats good for the GS?



/s





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^138 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/02/90  16:54:36        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here are some codez:

        Diverter: 1-800-333-2625 +9 + acn

        0488: 1548838387963

Note: 0488's that begin with 0 are traced, so don't use them (obviolsy)





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^139 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^more                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/03/90  16:07:27        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Well, here are some more:

        0488's: 1688835387963
                3828830387963

        Radiuses: 703-482-7755
                          7715
                          7722

Have some phun, and later...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^140 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0511                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/04/90  21:07:11        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Midian (#343)            ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

        90-0511

151811





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^141 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^anyway                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/04/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Midian (#343)             ^

0511

417623
573437
768361
272875
488247





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^142 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0511's                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/05/90  10:56:05        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#2)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^Ghost                     ^

Pardon the question, (we don't use 950's from here) but what co. is 0511?

                                  Hacky Tacky
                                   Co-Sysop





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^143 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Uhm...                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/05/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All!                      ^

This is gonna sound stupid, but...

Though I have been into modeming for 5 years now, I have never hreaked.
Never really thought it would be worth the risks!  HOwever...recently
I have started calling more boards out of the state, and now I want to learn
the secrets...

    I don't know the differences betwen 0266 and 0488, so I am pretty lost.
Can someone give me some "starter info", and how safe REALLY is this?  How
often should you change codes, etc.  Thanks!

        -- Anon E. Mous





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^144 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^anyway                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/06/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Annonymous Poster         ^

Alright, heres how to get started:


All stuff like 0266, or 0511, or 0488 are Long Distance "extenders". They have
real customers who use codes to call places which show up on there phone bll.
What a phreak does is get those codes (hacking, boards) and uses them to make
his calls. Unfortunately, someone pays for it...usually the phone company. You
can usuallu use codes for a while before they are bad say two  weeks is a safe
time for a code. After the end of the month dont use codes you used before!!
Yje phone bill will have come in  ad somebodys screaming bloody murder about
all these calls that they didnt make. Different...oops gotta go...someone ele
post the rest...
.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Excange ^  Z^Number ^Z^145 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^1007                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^0/06/90  16:19:03        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Black Beard               ^

    Are you saying that 1007 doesn't work anymore in your 415 area?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^146 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^more                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/06/90  17:56:45        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^Anonomous                 ^

Well here's some more info on phreaking.  To use the 0488's you have two
alternatives: to call a 1-800 number or a local number.  The advantage of the
800 number is that you can use a diveter (another 800 # that allows you to call
another 800 #) and so you can't be traced- because sometimes they do trace you,
and then they send you a bill for the phone use.  So don't use 0488s on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday before 4pm.  To use and 0488 dial:

                1-800-327-9488 + acn + code     [acn=area code, number]
                        or
                950-0488 + acn + code

And generally ONE DAY, if you are lucky, is a good time to use the same code.
If it has gone national, it could be dead in a matter of hours.  Check out the
file in the Dox section with a list of dialing formats for other systems.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^147 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^outdials!!               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/07/90  01:13:32        ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

Can anyone tell me if there are any outdial services that use 9600 baud??? 2400
is to slow!!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^148 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^outdial                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/07/90  18:17:35        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)           ^

What outdial on what system are you using? I used to use a 2400bps outdial on
Telenet before that dial out service started cutting me off, and the other 1200
dial outs were too slow. And have you had any problems with file transfer-
that's one of the reasons I switched to 0488's, which is maybe something you
should consider..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^149 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^telenet                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/08/90  00:05:45        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Finn (#177)           ^

isnt telenet safer than codes? seems like telenet 's  will last longer and are
safer?  are they?  well codez are gettin pretty damn hard to find
lately,Cutlass





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^150 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^access...                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/08/90  21:08:41        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Cutlass (#186)            ^

how many poeple have access to this sub ? only the elite ?
                                                                Cutlass





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^151 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^^05/09/90  01:47:06        ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^finn                      ^

at the moment i am using datapac with 8900 number...still wish i could go
faster though.....Does anyone have prbs uplaoding? I seem to not be able to
upload t any boards!! Whats the prob????





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^152 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^1007's                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/09/90  09:03:38        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#95)        ^  Z^To     ^Z^Back A Few                ^

Well it's strange... 1007 was a lively rascal.  Then there was one code that
every dork with a computer jumped on and it went kaputtt!

When you called it gave a reference message and terminated.  Then 1007 came
back again.  Most folks were afraid of it and stered clear.  Now it's gone
dead again.

There have been MUCHO busts in this area lately. Scarey!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^153 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: access...            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/09/90  22:16:44        ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! A! (#1)             ^  Z^To     ^Z^Cutlass (#186)            ^

You are in a neutral country (Quebec) so everybody have access to this sub or
almost. Neutral ecause we can't use your 950 and almost all your 800

HA! HA!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^154 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: codez                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/09/90  22:20:12        ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^THE E.T. (#182)           ^

We can use datapac here in Montreal so can you give me your datapac code?

HA! HA!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^155 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^datapac                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/10/90  03:43:30        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ctlass (#186)           ^  Z^To     ^Z^Sysop                     ^

sorry dont use em ! i use c{dez,like 0266/0488/0511....the 0511 is best for
modeming and they dont/CANT bust ya ! 6 didgit code and NO ANI !!!   ,happy
hackin !

Cutlass





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^156 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488s                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/12/90  22:13:15        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

It's amazing: there has been an incredible scarcity of 0488s all over the
country.  But I have come across one little code
        6758179800384

And if anybody else has any, Pease post them!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^157 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: access...            ^

Z^Author ^Z^Night Stalker (#6)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^Sysop                     ^

Ok, Caller IDhas been finally approved in Canada...bad news for the
frenchskis...

Anyway could someone send me somes codes at either of these mail address
thanks.  I don't plan to use tem at my house, I've already been busted once.
I am not stupid.  Thanks

Andrew (co-sysop)

In return I could send you some wares....Gate Demo, Reversal, Rom 03 Nucleus
an some other programs for the GS...


Here it is...just my signature file:  Z^Dates  ^Z^05/13/90  01:38:43        ^

drew%nuchat.uucp@uhvax1.uh.edu | "I wandered home through silent streets
drew@nuchat.sccsi.com          |  And fell into a fitful sleep
drew@pro-europa.cts.com        |  Escape to realms beyond the night
drew@pro-houston.cts.com       |  Dream - can't you show me light"

Thanks again





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^158 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^caller id...             ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/13/90  14:02:47        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^ ZTo     ^Z^Night Stalker (#6)        ^

well canada has it,new jersey,pennsylvania and like virginia or somethin so
when the fuck is california gunna get it ? seems ike were last !





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^159 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Needed                  ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^05/14/90  16:09:38        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Stanstead Hick (#136)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^Whoever                   ^

Wanted:

1022's / 0488's

Sth





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^160 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^950                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/14/90  22:41:01        ^
Z^uthor ^Z^OLIBRI G. FLYER (#194)   ^  Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

  1033:6394420


OLIBRI G. FLYER





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^161 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488's                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/17/90  20:27:28        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dreamer (#176)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^OLIBRI G. FLYER (#194)    ^

Jeez 0488's die quickly around here. I just got three and all died in less than
3 hours. Does anyone have a GENIE Dial up?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^162 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Uh OH!!                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/18/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Read this carefully my friends....



Execuline: 950-0511...has just busted one of my good frineds...and this is very
dangerous for me to call here now...only hack this place between 1 and
4...PLEASE!! I don not know how tey got him...but it happened. He hacked cause
they were safe. They gave him an 1100$ bill (he's 14) and told his mom to pay
it...and took away his floppy version of code thief...anyway, be careful!!
This was not, by the way (I dont think) part of operation SUNDEVIL....


                        Phuck the Police:

                               God Luck and Happy Phreaking


                 Ghost in the Machine......





                                       Z^Number ^Z^163 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/18/90  19:00:05        ^
Z^Author ^Z^OLIBRI G. FLYER (#194)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^]M"DIk@8nQ0#sXV<RO{t@je5!s^

J/eU/|N[HtAT]B\MJ\"3^}B}X:ZITxa-{JV0Wn0Z
LDO&$OO_M)?d@T6g{



  I don't know why your codes go so quick.  I've been using 950-1033's and they
seem to last forever. The one code that I posted has been in effect for a LONG
time now.  about  week or two.



OLIBRI G. FLYER


    Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^164 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^245                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/20/90  11:13:59        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dreamer (#176)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^OLIBRI G. FLYER (#194)    ^

8002456332

5031555446





^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^165 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Well                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/22/90  11:13:54        ^
Z^Author ^Z^ICE BREAKER (#141)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  I haven't called here in a long time, but from the dissucion that I was
reading in the earlier messages, I can see that you guy's seem to be using alot
of 0511's..Here's the deal with them, ifyou live in California, or close  to
it, don't use em they'll get ya!  Now anywhere else, and your pretty much safe
depending on how much you use em..There based in California, and it would cost
them nothing to get ya, if you live in the same state..But if your on the east
coast, then it'll cost them ALOT of money to bust you, so most likely they
won't even bother..You guy's should really use more of a variety of codes other
than 0488/0266/0511's..Try 144's (six digit code + acn) or 1555(same as 1044)
There's alot of cn/a's out there, just look for some that aren't used as much,
and use a variety of codes, keep's the game alt safer..Remember 950 cannot
have ANI, now they can trace, but ANI cannot be installed, so just be samrt,
and you'll stay safe..

                               Exocet





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^166 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^1007                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/26/90  15:06:59        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Prowler (#23)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Blackbeard                ^

    Hmm...1007 works fine over in 408, but I don't know why they killed it in
415..some poeple got busted scanning 1007..allthey did was bill them $175..
oh whell..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^167 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^acess code               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/27/90  23:34:25        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hired Assassian (#84)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

I have a serious question I have the number to cosmos but not the access code
and from what I heard every wrong password they change the number so I ask does
anyone have the id and the password to cosmos?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^168 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^cosmos                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/28/90  01:12:55        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Hred Assassian (#84)     ^

whats the #<in email> what state is it in and for which  bell system? i have a
cosmos for all{of california the 1st 2 passes are 111111     12121 but i dont
got the 3rd             also...codez

0511:421-901    547631  683661  637242
0488:616 895 066 4626

thats all,later Cutlass





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^169 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^anyway                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/28/90  10:41:00        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ghost (#168)             ^ Z^To    ^Z^Cutlass (#186)            ^

Talk to me in E_mail, cutlass about Cosmos....either here or on the Sound
Barrier...
.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^170 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^05/28/90  14:16:54        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Finn (#177)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Well here's another 0488:

          3277335459007


And about 0511's..How can you use them on the East Coast except through the 800
Dial-Up which I've heard has ANI.(the 950 doesn't work in my area.)





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^171 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: acess code           ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/29/90  00:09:12        ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^Hired Assassian (#84)     ^

From wich planet your cosmos phone number come???

HA! HA!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^172 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: acess code           ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^05/29/90  00:46:17        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hired Assassian (#84)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^Sysop                    ^

Well the areacode was 617 but now I have the 800
no.  somebody screwed up the 617 code.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^173 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^aedfhadfhgadf            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/04/90  00:19:41        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

ok HA HA! HE HE! my cosmos controls ALL of California routings like all 911
ect...you can turn #'s on/off anything you please even route 911 calls to yer
house if you are that stupid enuff!!! you can totally mess up any trunk groups
you want only again for calif...which is covered by 95.5% of pac bell...sorry
this cosmos can only be called from a phone that has service w/pac bell not
Generl Telephone there is many dialups including a voice computer and modem
dialups it consists of a "Login" Password" "Passcode" all 3 passcode/word/login
is 6 digits

also 950-011 only has  a 950 dilup in california only...i belive thier
800<ani> is nationwide         ^ +A
tyhere are no other 950'z for them.....now the codez and shit....some of it was
                                                                               b
uffered but here it iz...

0488
----
574 895 566 4626
177 733 245 9007
121 711 808 3311


a few that I have picked up over the past few boards i called:


0488:  6777110083311

xD818-886-9494 BRIDGE

9500511 290179
        276439

CODELINES
3139806654
8005583456

all from 1-800-348-6551  box 6361212

o488:

5748955664626

313-980-6654... belongs to The Undertaker
313-980-8730... belongs to The Black Wizard

9500488
5748955664626
577730459007
8797337459007


8009501111  0+acn+  467724507058510


diverters
8006270500
8004621507

bridge
18003255233

vmbs
8005223668  818
8007358700 789
8006699283 **+1297
8004561919  191  192

international port to hack
6167465000  5+ACN

bridges
8188869494
8188465000
8185081300

8009501111 0+acn 46772450705851



 Board: Hack/Phrak Board                   Subject: CODEZ
    To: G.A. Ellsworth                      Number: 93 of 93
  From: THRASHIN (#49)                        Date: 06/03/90  06:15:14 PM

0488
-----
121718083311

Now ontu your question. 0511's bust people like flys on shit. I would stayaway
from them. Ripco....a board that is one of the longest running.....went down
for codez and illegal carding, ya know credit cards? The guy was into some
heavy shit. Stay with o488's cause ITT does not bust they just change the
codes every 12 to 24 hours now. It saves them the money and it is easy.

1800easyITT-----this has the Ani stuff your talking about. NEVER use this
dialup unless you want to be fucked with.

A sting board huh? What a joke.

VMB's
--------------
1 800 729 9579 **1000 (press star twice when you here the fag that comes on)
1 800 729 9579 **6027 (same as above)
1 800 477 7749 * 725
1 800 456 1919 box 191&192
1 800 348 6551 box 6361212
1 800 444 2742 box 4890
1 800 522 3668 box 818
1 800 735 8700 box 789
1 800 669 9283 **1297

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
check this system out. I think the format is acn then the number.

18002456332
-----------
503155xxxx
     8075
      8572
      8785
      5733
      6939
     3180
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          That is all I got for now. Use the VMB's NOT TO LEECH! Post in there
mail box what you got or I will be pissed. At least let them know who you are
for fucking christ sakes. Leeches are the downfall of boards so remember that.
Dont use the excuse "I do not hack!" Get a code and post it to another VMB
that might not have it.
           But have FUN!
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

as you can see like i said....the last posts/s were/are buffered but there here
now/to!!

                                 C U T L A S S





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^174 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^hey...                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/13/90  10:19:40 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Master (#90)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^Cutlass (#186)            ^

I'm back...with a code...yes only one

1-800-535-4991....: 45967

very clean....nice....anyway...here I am....and the phreaking world
sucks...even thou I'm in NJ....Caller Id isn't available in my area till 1992
so I'm still safe for a little while.....while most of nj already has it...I'm
in the safe part...hehe

                                  The Master





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^175 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^hmm...                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/14/90  10:10:25 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ghost (#168)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

Calling with at the moment....


1033: 5864675


not mine....





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^176 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^vmb                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/14/90  03:07:27 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Dreamer (#176)       ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

call this vmb at

800-220-5555 hit #784





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^177 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Bell Calling Cad        ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^06/16/90  10:50:06 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Hi !  Guys !

Just wanted to ask if any of you has any Bell Calling Card number. Just want to
use it from public phone to call someone real far voice...

This would be much appreciated. Thanx !!!

                                                The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Numbr ^Z^ 178 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^I'd                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/17/90  03:06:20 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)    ^

Like to make a suggestion.

Don't post ANYTHING what-so-ever that has ANYTHING what-so-ever to do with a

                                    CARD

Any type of card...  I won't elaborae, but these are the topics that cause
great pain...  It's HA HA's system and I won't say don't do it, but I'm making
a very good suggestion for a very volitile topic!





^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^179 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: I'd                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/17/90  10:22:12 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Th Black Forban (#64)   ^  Z^To     ^Z^Blackbeard (#195)         ^


Hi !

Well, I understand what you mean but this really has nothing to do with a card.
I'll explainmyself: the telco calls that a "Calling Card Number" but it's just
a number (code) you use to make LD calls. It's about the same thing as you use
in the States (Sprint, ITT, et...). You dial 0+Area+Number and when it asks
for number you just dial your account number in the following format
###-###-####-####. And all the LD gets charged on this account...

It's real dangerous if you call anywhere FROM your house caus' the telco
records the number from where you called each time you use the number and then
your phone number appears on the card bill... But if you call from a public
phone, then it's no prob !

        Anyway, that's it for now...
                                                The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^180 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODEZ                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/18/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Hello, COdez...

0511
669678
520319
Got E'm last night...!!

Ghost in the Machine





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^181 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: CODEZ                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/19/90  12:39:39 AM     ^
ZAuthor ^Z^Cutlass (#186)           ^  Z^To     ^Z^Anoymous User             ^

bummer those are dead sorry uy musta hacked em to close together cause tey
both died! also i agree i personallyt think callin cdz are ok! they are thge
same as a code! in 1 way or another !





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^182 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^dead??                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/19/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^utlass...                ^

Really?? Hm...they seem to work right NOW...how do you mean by dead??.s
s.
anyway...

botth still work as far as I know..





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^183 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Thieve's Guild           ^ Z^Dtes  ^Z^06/21/90  11:49:25 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Black Priest (KPA) (#376)^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

 Well, gladto see there ARE some Apple Phreakers down here.
 I'll give you guys some Codes to CALL MY BOARD, Thieve's Guild,
 For their will be plenty more where that came from. Thieve's
 Guild is the ELITIEST board on the East Coast, and if it's codes your
 looking for, along with warez, and everything else that has to do
 with Phreaking - Thieve's Guild is the place...

-=-=-=-=-=1-800-535-4991=-=-=-=-=-=-

    05007
    18888
    21288
    44201
    05077
    10568
    45967
    89054
    66738
    89504

ac
Area Code
then my number...
(814)288-2541

  Thieve's Guild. An Electronic Underworld....





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^184 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^anywya                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/21/90  01:24:13 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ghost (#168)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^Black Priest (KPA) (#376) ^

i'll be off and dialing in a sec....he hhe...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^185 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^hi!                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/22/90  18:25:22        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Ghot (#168)             ^  Z^To     ^Z^Ghost (#168)              ^

0511
140489


have fun...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^186 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^535                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/26/90  01:50:19        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Mike The Great (#76)     ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Well, looks like they finally caught on with all those codes on that
1-800-535-4991 place....I wonder if they caught anyone in the process...

Mike the Great





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^187 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: Thieve's Guild       ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^06/30/90  11:06:22        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Black Forban (#64)   ^ Z^To     ^Z^Black Priest (KPA) (#376) ^


Hi !

Just too bad your 1-800 & codes don't work from Montreal, Canada...

Caus' I'd call your board right away !

                                                See ya soon !
        The Black Forban





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^188 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^07/29/90  22:57:42        ^
Z^Author ^Zdr. digital (#388)       ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^


For codes call.

                                 Hell Dome Gs
                                 215-562-4928
                                   9600 Baud
                                  Apple Only





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^189 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Stuff...                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/27/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

0488: working as of 2:30 am 8/27/90
791 594522 5338  (I'm using it...)

VMB: 1800-782-0413   hit # then 35





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^190 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^VMB's                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^08/29/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALl                       ^

Just wondering guys, I know better than to use any codes out of my house,
but What's the deal on VMB's, do they rate the same kind of trouble
from home? I assume it's a bad idea to call out, but I'd like to know for sure.

Any info ?

Very secret and anonymouse type person.

donee
arg





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^191 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^VMB's and such           ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/02/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

For the most part, VMB's are safe to call..Occasionally, you'll hear of one
being monitored...

1800-347-9700 box 291

213-840-2770 Ricky Watts

213-960-4348 AK-47

1800-225-5946

   50316xxxxx
        87615
        82152
        84492
        27791
        26552
        99843   <- these supposedly work from So Cal...

1800-331-676

   503177xxxx
         6666
         6766    <- USE CAUTION!  PAY PHONES ONLY!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^192 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^Got one                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/06/90  21:24:28        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  Here is an 0488:
                  088 158 586 4721





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^193 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^09/11/90  09:18:37 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

135 158 586 4712
641 594 022 5338
454 594 922 5338





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^194 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^code...                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/12/90  12:49:51 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

800-225-5946    503162xxxx
                      8803 - Working right now, I'm using it!
                      9796 - The rest of these are UNVERIFIED!!
                      9350   They worked as of 09/10/90.
                      6853
                      9917
                      4812
                      0442
                      2101
                      6696
                      0007
                      2115
                      0716
                      2183
                      4368
                      1508
                      3073

That should do for awhile.  This is my first time on this system, so I thought
I'd make my first post a good one (heh)!  I sure would like to see some more
0488's around here <hint>...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^195 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^ITT                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/15/90  01:48:5 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

950-0488    0231588864712    AC + Number + Code

 know that code works because I'm using it right now.  It will last ALL
weekend, so enjoy it while you can.  That's all I got!!  Maybe I'll post
another update later.  Any othe hackers/phreakers on this system?

Oh yeah, if you're interested in hacking VMB's, try this system belong to
Nickels and Dimes, Inc... 800-800-COIN (2646).  It is a very new VMB system, so
they haven't yet experienced the joy of VMB hackers (heh, heh).  Anyway, there
should be LOTS of easy boxes to hack on that system (3 digit boxes).  Call
Bounty Bob's Codeline on that same system at box 153.  Later...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^196 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^VMB                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/15/90  08:25:29 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Rifleman                  ^

  What is the best software for hacking a vmb?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^197 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: VMB                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/15/90  11:49:32 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^Acid dog (#35)            ^

Well, I believe most VMB hacking is done by hand (i.e. dialing time and time
again until you find a box).  I don't think there are ANY real VMB hacker
programs available.  But I may be wrong.

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^198 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Prodial                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/16/90  04:43:50 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

Ever heard of it? I think everyone has, it might do the trick with a
little fiddling mightn't it?

Bugster





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^199 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Prodial                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/16/90  04:46:25 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Whoever                   ^

#7 in area 3 on the Xfer section, dunno if this is redundant.......

Later dudes.

Bugster





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^200 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/17/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Bugster (#378)            ^

0488:5201585864712





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^201 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^ITT                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/18/90  03:00:11 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

That last 0488 posted doesn't work (at least not here in Washington) so here's
another one that I'm using right now:

950-0488    4375947225338    AC + Number + Code.

Also, if anyone has any 0488 or VMB hackers, PLEASE upload them.  Thanx...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^202 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^These codes              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/19/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

Kodes Kodes Kodes Kodes Kodes Kodes Kodes..... There an IBM board with some
good codes I just have to gain their trust.....

Baaaahahahahaha


Anon.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^203 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^?!?                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/19/90  02:39:17 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^?!?                       ^

What was that last post all about?  Maybe the Sysop should be more selective
with his new user applications (they SHOULD know English and spelling!).

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^204 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Hehehe                  ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^09/19/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

I didn't think that a working knowlege of the English language was EVER a
prerequisit or anyone with hacking skill.  If they know how to use the
language, that would mean that they could communicate normally with humans, not
just terminals!  :)

The preceding essage was gentle humor, and anti-social pasty white hackers
should not take it that I think they are sub human, and therefore should NOT go
into my bank file and slash my credit rating.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^205 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: ?!?                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/19/90  10:2:21 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

Well my english are not perfect and because of that, i can't be more selective
with new users. Just to be fair with everybody...

HA! HA!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^206 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/23/90  10:45:50 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Well, here's some 0488's for ya to abuse.  I can't use any of them from MY
area, but I'm sure someone will beable to use 'em:

950-0488    8211494304740    AC + Number + Code.
            4545949225338    AC + number + Code.
            3758108663963    AC + Number + Code.
            5201585864712    AC + Number + Code.

And here's another code that I'm not too sure about.  I have been using it all
weekend, and its a new code, so I think its pretty safe  Everyone should abuse
the heck out of it, since its a new company that probably isn't used to people
hacking on their system:

800-233-7684    AC + Number / Wait / 5031765443

I have a number of codes for the 800-331-6769 system, but I have heard that
some people have been busted on them lately (in the larger cities) so I won't
risk anyone elses safety by posting them.  But here's some VMB's to call to get
your own codes:

800-543-9876       Box 4016 (Backups 4014, 4006)
800-869-8600       Box 1765
800-877-7474       Box 815, 864, 865
800-323-0600 '0+#' Box 155, 380
800-462-6227       Box 9999
800-877-0123       Box 1215, 4009
800-443-7413       Box 198, 314, 330, 340, 364, 391, 392, 411, 435, 470, 550
800-421-1500       Box 310
800-366-7800 '*'  Box 6993
800-666-1155       Box 391
800-950-1027 '9'   Box 328, 329
800-421-9850       Box 270
800-365-2337       Box 9507, 9510
60-389-6280
702-594-8669, 9566
818-905-4512
904-561-4065, 4087, 4095, 4200
904-847-7750
916-553-2982

And here's some bridges and loops to call:

Bridges                      Loops
-------                      -----
702-333-3480                 503-226-1070, 1071
713-521-0081                 513-829-1015, 1016, 1017, 1018
313-719-9200
818-508-1300
213-598-0900
313-721-9200

Whew!!  That should help my posting percentage a bit... Later!

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^207 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^What                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/24/90  11:01:36 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^War Hammer (#61)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

I was just wondering, what do you guys do to avoid getting caught when you are
doing this "Phreaking"?  I know a guy who did a very little of it many years
ago, and quit when the FBI came to his door asking why his computer had called
the Federal Judge who had just prior recieved a bomb threat.  Scarey.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^208 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Heh...                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/25/90  02:55:52 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Dr. Pepper (#88)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^War Hammer (#61)          ^

#1,,,you don't do stupid things like calling federal judges.

#2...play dumb (though I guess this doesn't work as well as it used to).

#3...know the safety factor of the systems you're using...if you don't know,
     proceed with caution.


My code for the day:

1-800-225-5946, 5061320716 + acn.

-=+> Dr. P





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^209 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Well...                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/25/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^Dr. Pepper (#88)          ^

oops, I didn't want that annon.  Oh well.  The thing was, he was just dialing
number after number in hopes of a connection.  Didn't know that the federal
judge was in the dialing sequence.  Oh well.  At least the FBI guy was the dad
of a friend of ours, so he knew us and knew that Scott wasn't harmful.  I think
it would be fun to be an FBI guy and scare the shit out of kids!@

War Hammer
/s





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^210 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^codes...                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/26/90  05:13:38 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                      ^

950-0488    2491586864712    AC + Number + Code.
            0765948225338    AC + Number + Code.

800-233-7684   5031765443    AC + Number / Wait / Code.

Neither of those 0488's work from my area (they're regional) but I know that
they are working as of right now.  That 800-233-7684 system is working now
also, since I'm using it to call here now.  Its a new system, ABUSE IT!!!  They
haven't had they opportunity to experience mass phreaking yet.  Here's some
VMB's to call also...

800-543-9876       Box 4016 (Backups 4014, 4006)
800-869-8600       Box 1765
800-877-7474       Box 815, 864, 865
800-323-0600 '0+#' Box 155, 380
800-462-6227       Box 9999
800-877-0123       Box 4009
800-443-7413       Box 198, 314, 330, 340, 364, 391, 392, 411, 435, 470, 550
800-421-1500       Box 310
800-366-7800 '*'   Box 6993
800-950-1027 '9'   Box 340, 328, 329
800-365-2337       Box 9507, 9510
800-366-6773       Box 3021
602-389-6280
702-594-8669, 9566
818-905-4512
904-561-4065, 4087, 4095, 4200
904-847-7750
916-553-2982

Some of those have been posted before, but oh well.  Call around, there are
LOTSof codes out there, I'm just too lazy to write them all down.  Call, keep
the flow of codes coming.  Later...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^211 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^getting caught           ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^09/26/90  05:20:19 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^















      Z^To     ^Z^War Hammer (#61)          ^

Sorry for the double post...

When phreaking you should ALWAYS be aware of which codes you are using.  I
usually tend to shy away from cods that I don't know are safe.  The preferred
codes (at least as far as I am concerned) are 0488's, but they are not always
readily available.  I use just about anything  As long as I don't abuse the
code TOO much I think phreaking is relatively safe.

If you DO get caught then play dumb.  If someone calls you, just play STUPID
and say you dn't know what they are talking about.  If they come to your door,
well, GOOD LUCK!!  I haven't had the experience yet, but I know I would play
VERY dumb, and I wouldn't let the know I had a computer or a modem.

If you get billed for calls made, just pay the bill and don't use that code
anymore.  This has never happened to me in my two and a half years of
phreaking.  In fact, I've never been called even!!  (knock on wood)  Anyway,
that's my advice.

So, what did w learn from all this...      DON'T GET CAUGHT!!!!! (heh, heh)

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^212 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Code for the day         ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/02/90  11:27:39 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                       ^

Dial 18002337684-beep-acn-beep-5031788700





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^213 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Here's another...        ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/04/90  07:30:14 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^Acid dog (#35)            ^

800-233-7684    AC + Number / Wait / 5031757815

I have and can get many more codes on that system if anyone is interested.  But
this is the only one that I actually verified as working.  Abuse the hell out
of this code.  I haven't heard of one single bust or billing on this system,
and it gives good clean connections.

Space Ace IIgs is out now (9 sides), so I'm sure the code will get some good
usage.  Call Private Storage at 215-745-0495.  Good system...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^214 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^blah...                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/06/90  04:25:46 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

Hello?  Anyone else out there?  We need some PHREAKERS on here!!!  Anyway,
here's another code to abuse:

800-233-7684    5031764863    AC + Number / Wait / Code.

Use it while it lasts.  This is your chance to get the latest wares, and since
codes are relatively scarce lately you should use 'em while you can!

- The Rifleman -
"I'm on the Highway to Hell..."





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^215 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: blah...              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/06/90  10:58:56 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^HA! HA! (#1)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

BTW if you come across an 800 that can be used here in Canada, i will
appreciate it verry much.  Hope this one work...

Nope a lady say to me something like " You have dial the number that is not
avalable from your calling area "

Too bad

HA! HA!





Z^oard  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^216 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488's                   ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/07/90  05:12:10 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^Sysop                     ^

Hey, can you use 0488's from Canada?  I have one right now, but I'm not giving
it out.  I'm gonna keep it to myself for now.

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^217 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^0488                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^10/07/90  12:41:57 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Rifleman                 ^

 Why not post it public? Then when everyone uses it, it will be harder for them
to single you out. Right?

Here are some codes from Skull Crusher's VMB @800-869-8600 ox #1765

800-233-7684
+acn
+50317xxxxx
      83597
      64863
      48267
      61699
      83214
      55587
      80868
      94825
      33131
      30691
     68946
      44691
      67673
      67801

AT&T calling card
818 339 954 2274

Bridge
818 508 1300

Please post that 0488!





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^218 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: blah...              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/08/90  04:01:17 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^THE GHOST (#79)          ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^



  Hi,, just want to say thanks for the codes!  Some of the voice boxes are very
interesting,  I have not phreaked for about 4 years.  Now it seems as it is
much harder to hack out he codes.  I remember getting 5-7 pages of codes a
night.  Wow them were the days... I was just wondering if you could tell me a
little more about the voice boxes?  I wish I ha some codes to share with you
but I have none <boo>.  I have a phreaking section on my bbs, but it is not
real active as most of my callers right now are local... Oh well thank!

PS-  my board is.  407-365-1545 - Orion - IBM/Apple - Later

ghost





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^219 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codes...                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/13/90  03:59:20 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here's my only working codes right now...

800-882-4913    5031752500   Tone / AC + Number / Tone / Code.
800-535-4501    5031541036    I forget the format.  I think it tells you.

That's all that's going around right now.  I give you guys the mens to call
out more often, now you guys gotta start calling.  Lets get some REAL action on
this system.  The more callers we get means the more conversation and more
codes getting posted, and more files being up/downloaded.  Lets get busy!!

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^220 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^^VMB's                    ^  Z^Dates  ^Z^10/13/90  04:01:36 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)      ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Oh yeah, I almost forgot.  Here's my current list of VMB's.  Call ;'em up when
the codes I posted go dead.  There's usually SOMETHING out there to leech, and
most boxes get updated either daily orevery couple of days.  Here goes...

800-535-0010 '*'   Box 8000
800-869-8600       Box 1765
800-747-3600 '9'   Box 254, 260, 222, 601
800-462-6227       Box 9999
800-443-713       Box 198, 411
800-421-1500       Box 310
800-366-7800 '*'   Box 6993
800-366-6773       Box 3021

There are a LOT more Voice Mail Boxes out there, but this is the list of boxes
that I personally call.  Later...

- The Rifleman -





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^221 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Problem                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/14/90  01:56:38 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^The Rifleman (#393)       ^

Drag mun. None of these things seem to work out of Canada. I'm bummed.

Is there some way I can switch into another clling area or am I screwed
royally.... I tried to run any of these and nothing worx....
what's with bell up here anyways, do I need to dial an area code FIRST?
geez. maybe it'sjust me, but I dunno....

gracias por any help received.

(what's a 38Kbaud modem worth nowadays?)

Bugster





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^222 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Bugster                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/14/90  11:25:16 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#2)         ^ Z^To    ^Z^All                       ^

Same here.. Living in Canada when it comes to codes is real shit. I don't even
bother trying the ones posted here anymore much since 00's and most 0488's
don't work. the only ones that do are 1022's which i think is MCI and of course
At&t cards but thats just like using a bell calling card, theres no point..

                                  Hacky Tacky
                                   Co-Sysop





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^223 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/15/90  12:18:09 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^DoctoR DiTTo (#9)        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Hey, I think I've got something here...  1-800-225-5946 / 5031631xxx

Fill the x'sw/ 516, 173, 199, 735, 811, 891.  It accepted teh code when I
tried, but I couldn't connect here for some reason.  Do ya have to dial a "1"
before the area code on these things?  Please let me know... I've never really
done this before!   Hope these codez work for ya.  The 516 and 173 worked for
me, up to a point.

 ---DoctoR DiTTo---





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking CodezExchange ^  Z^Number ^Z^224 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Codez                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/21/90  11:42:17 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Hacky Tacky (#2)          ^

Maybe I can get some stuff out of T.O. I can only try....

Bugster





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^225 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Code                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^10/28/90  09:44:36 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^A;;                       ^

Just one code, but a working one.

800-882-4913
             5031699329
tone/acn/tone/code





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^226 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Once agin                ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/06/90  1:27:07 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Acid dog (#35)            ^

Is there a way to get canadian codes? Can I reoute my call to make
use of the US ones? Canada sux.

Bug





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^227 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODE                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/07/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here is a code for all of you at 1-800-882-4913
The code is 503-176-4041





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^228 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODE                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/11/90                  ^
Z^Author ^Z^Anonymous Poster!        ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Here is a code for you all at 1-800-225-5946
the code is 503-164-4581





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^229 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^255's & 882's            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/12/90  01:40:41 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

 I have heard that using 255's isn't a good idea anymore. I have had them call
me back also, so here is an 882:

1800-882-4913
   5031693107
         0673

Format is 800/ ACN / CODE





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^230 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^882                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/14/90  12:08:56 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^cid dog (#35)           ^  Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

More...

  50317xxxxx
       56842
       15725
       17360
       87934
       90710





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^231 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^New system               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/17/90  11:25:14 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

1800 288 8845
   322 9533

The format is 800 / code / 1+acn






                                       Z^Number ^Z^232 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^225                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/18/90  02:25:58 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Sensi! (#241)            ^ Z^To     ^Z^Acid dog (#35)            ^

I've talked to some people that got their phone bill for this month and they
were billed for all they calls made with the 225's.... Bless the local
divertors, ha!
/s









                                                                               Z
^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^233 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: 225                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/18/90  09:28:38 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Sensi! (#241)             ^

You use dvertors? I never have, dosn't it take a long time just to make one
call?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^G%Z^Number ^Z234 of 255                 ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: 225                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/22/90  02:12:30 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Sensi! (#241)            ^ Z^To     ^Z^cid dog (#35)            ^

but it's safe.. (r)

        Has anyone heard of an on-going investigation on the Southeast (US)?





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^235 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODE                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/24/90  01:06:34 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                       ^

 1800 833 2441
   503 167 3966

format: 800/ code / ACN





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^236 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^CODe                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/24/90  08:37:11 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^ALL                       ^

Scrap that last post, it is dead already. Here are some new.

1800 833 2441

    503 167 4267

And here are a list of a few VMB's:

800 535 0010 * 8000
800 848 1488 * 0
800 848 5213   900
800 331 4913   3253, 3258
800 899 6000   401
800 423 2008 9 149, 165, 727
800 527 0543 8 321
800 940 0041 * 209
800 831 9679 # 555219

The last, and the best:

800 777 9030  102





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^237 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^HERE                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/25/90  12:40:44 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Phantom Phreak (#408)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

I don't know if these work since i won't touch 5946 but i got 'em from a shit
local system
5031697120
      7179
      7187





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^238 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Boxes...                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^11/25/90  05:43:37 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Krazy (#413)             ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Ah, heya... I was reading the past few posts and didn't see anything by way of
boxes, I've read a lot of files ON boxes and what they do, but what these files
lack, is how to MAKE them. They list all the good things about them, and all
the dangers... but now what you need to actually throw one together. Some of
you people must have made one? Could you post or upload or something a file on
how to MAKE them? I don't care what kind at this point, I just want to put one
together and see if it works...

Thanks,

   Krazy





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^239 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^BOXES..                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/06/90  10:30:58 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Krazy (#413)              ^

You talking about the boxes that you plug into your phone and you get free
calls? I heard that those went the wa of the dinosaur. Ask Rifleman, he should
be able to tell you a bunch of stuff on them, as I belive he was around then.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^240 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^here                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/09/90  02:34:06 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Phantom Phreak (#408)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

18008332441
5031617916





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^241 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^833                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/12/90  08:06:21 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

  1800 833 2441

  503 162 7210
  503 162 7310

format is 800-code-ACN. But I suppose that the operator tells you that anyway.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^242 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^2441                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/13/90  07:13:56 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Phantom Phreak (#408)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

I called it today and some lady picked up and said, "Security Operator", shit,
that's not good...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^243 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^833                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/17/90  06:50:05 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^Phantom Phreak (#408)     ^

 Yes, they are down, and I said shit also. Oh, well, there is always a new
system. How about 1800 433 4778  5031704467

And 503 170 3875.
Using it right now.
Format is 800 / code / ACN





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^244 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^New code                 ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/24/90  05:49:38 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^all                       ^

1800 635 6366 / 162 / acn





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^245 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^New codes VMB            ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^12/3090  12:36:24 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

        The number of codes out has been really low for quite a while, but
there are still a lot of VMB's to call:

1800 729 5820     2531
1800 527 0543  8  302
1800 535 0010  *  8000
1800 848 1488  *  0
1800 777 9030     776, 376, 379
1800 477 7691     4458, 4455
1800 950 0203     617, 200
1800 527 0543  8  307, 321
1800 222 6228  9  653, 694, 656
1800 435 2008  9  132, 810
1800 283 2337     04457

I have two PBX's,but the 333 is a no go below 9600, as the volume is really
low.

1800 333 2625 / 4961 / 9 / 1 / ACN

1800 223 6169 / 6932 / ACN





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^246 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^VMB's                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/03/91  06:24:14 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Codes have been getting pretty scarce, but there are still a lot of VMB's to
call. If you have trouble writing as fast as they talk, just record them with
something and play it back so that you can transcribe it.

VMB's
-------------
1800 729 5820     2531
1800 535 0010  *  8000
1800 848 1488  *  0
1800 777 9030     776, 376, 379, 503
1800 477 7691     4458, 4455
1800 950 0203     617, 200
1800 527 0543  8  307, 321
1800 222 6228  9  653, 694, 656
1800 435 2008  9  132, 810
1800 283 2337     04457
1800 527 0543     545, 321
1800 514 7441     513, 889
1800 512 9500     800, 649, 447
1800 283 2337     04457
1800 222 6228  9  653, 654, 656
1800 435 2008  9  138, 810
1800 333 0045 0#  4077
1800 777 7099     801, 802
1800 477 7691     4430, 4448, 4455, 4458, 4438, 4484
1800 759 3115     420#
1800 283 2337     04457
1800 777 7099     211, 706
1800 741 5881 **  1111
1800 950 0203     615, 218
1800 877 9764     501
1800 940 0011     902
1800 888 8401     259
1800 882 0503     2000


0488's
--------------
9500488 / ACN / 724 665 487 0513
                444 665 787 0513

Do not call
-------------
8882 Divertor
800 888 1363 Unix
800 365 1234 PBX
800 435 PBX

Loops
--------------
302 652 9991 - 9992
616 746 9996 - 9997
602 384 9991 - 9994
301 562 9929 - 9930

Sweeps
-------------
1800 999 1113
1800 888 8877





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^247 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Stuff                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/08/91  12:17:54 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

PBX's
-------------
800843 3313 / 399 411 / ACN
415 501 1102 / 9 / 1 / ACN
800 888 1559 / * / ACN <--- Payphone only

Tymnet Global
-------------
302 091 600 120


AT&T's
-------------
915 569 741 67698
209 683 038 23315
209 886 566 75574
301 674 286 44902


976 Backdoor
------------
1800 DATA xxx
          130
          131
          140
          141
          144
          140

Do not call
--------------
8882 Divertor
800 888 1363 Unix
800 365 1234 PBX
800 435 PBX

Sweeps
-------------
1800 BUT FIND

Bridges
------------
818 886 9494
213 559 7900





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number^Z^ 248 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^Boxes                    ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/08/91  12:48:48 PM     ^
Z^Autho ^Z^Bugster (#378)           ^  Z^To     ^Z^BOX DUDE                  ^

Boxes are way out, sorry, but even the simplest box is
now pretty well useless thanx to the loss of
electromech systems.... everything being digital etc....
at any rate, boxes (all the ones you'll hear about, black, green, red, etc, in
the old letters or such) are too easy for the Phone Company to find.
There may be some new more technical ones out, tho... ask around...

Bugster





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^249 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^ANI                      ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/29/91  12:12:59 AM     ^
Z^Athor ^Z^Helium (#425)            ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

There are currntly (as you could have guessed) some people working on fucking
with ANI.  Making a system which will allow you to CHANGE the number that ANI
thinks you are calling from.  I do't know how far they are yet, but it will
be out in the future....  So, keep an eye open for this new device..
/s





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^250 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Code...                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^01/31/91  02:36:19 AM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Dr. Pepper (#88)         ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Herez an AT&T for ya....virgin...

0+ACN+81233236406572 (that's after the "AT&T" music, dudez...)

laters...

/s





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchang ^  Z^Number ^Z^251 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^8007761681               ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/04/91  06:16:13 PM     ^
Z^Author ^Z^Phantom Phreak (#408)    ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

682829+acn
no more need be said...





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^252 of 255               ^
Z^Subject^Z^codez..                  ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/18/91  10:08:34        ^
Z^Author ^Z^The Maser (#90)         ^  Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

Looking for codez.....drop a call to Byte Bastard BBS....I've had like 600
Creditcard numbers...and hundreds of codez being posted in the last week and a
half...so if you need stuff...drop a call....seems to be the best activity
around rite now.

                                  The Master

201/697-7001.....12/24/96/14.4k





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^253 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Re: codez..              ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^02/23/91  22:20:43        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Trigon the Destroyer (#95^ Z^To     ^Z^The Master (#90)          ^

Well, I think that you would get a few more calls if you posted some codes so
that people like me with limited LD time can call and not have to worry about
how much time they spent online.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^ Z^Number ^Z^254 of 255                ^
Z^Subject^Z^Geez                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^03/12/91  23:10:01        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

   Looks like the code market is pretty stale right now. A few VMB's

1800 800 1239 * 9997
1800 800 2824 # 6254


later.





Z^Board  ^Z^Phreaking Codez Exchange ^             255 of 255
Z^Subject^Z^code                     ^ Z^Dates  ^Z^04/07/91  16:16:11        ^
Z^Author ^Z^Acid dog (#35)           ^ Z^To     ^Z^All                       ^

My god, I haven't called in a long time, I thought tht there would be at least
a few more posts on this board.

1800.426.6565
          5031301214

