           Information File


Introduction:

Not too long ago everybody use to call  long distance through AT&T.  Well
recently as you have noticed it is time to make the switch.  Many people chose
MCI which actually not very suprising since the connection really is not that
bad and the price, well much cheaper.  Anyways I am going to be discussing
diverters and their use in phreaking.


Divertors:

Divertors can be used for several purposes as I will list for you:

Calling 976 numbers
Calling 900 numbers
Being Abusive To Operators
Setting up conferences and sometimes
using them instead of MCI or some other LD service to call for free.

Definition of a divertor is basically
just using someone elses phone line to call out on.  Your goal is as you could
guess is to get their dial tone.

Why does it divert?

Well there are still very old phone systems out there and what happens is
this:

Say you call someone and they are on a very old phone system and they answer
you say 'Is Joe in?'.   Normally they will say 'I'm sorry you have the wrong
number' and they hang up!  That was your goal, for them to hang up.  When they
hang up you just sit there waiting, and after about 20 seconds you will hear a
dial tone!  That is their dial tone!  Amazing huh!  Anyways here is the catch,
just because its an old phone system does not mean that its going to divert.
There are very few of these numbers in the United States that actually will.

An example is the 617-655-xxxx divertor in Neidic, Ma. (not sure how 'Neidic'
is spelled, but it is pronounced 'NAY DIK') Anyways this system happens to be vvery old and when the person hangs up it will indeed divert. 

NOTE:

In the 617-655-xxxx diverter it is very likely that it will not divert every
time sometimes you will have to call about 5 numbers until you get a dial tone
when they hang up or as you now  know, until it diverts.

Other forms of diverting that I know of is this.  It does not always have to
be a old phone system.  It can be very new phone systems too.  This is
accomplished through transfering of calls or also known as call forwarding.
An example:

A business man wants his calls that normally would go to his business line at
work to come in at his home after work hours.  What he does is arrange with
the phone company to have his calls transfered or forwarded to his home phone
number say after 5:00 PM every weekday.  When you call his work number, say it
was 555-555-5555 you would hear a ring or two then you would hear usually a
different sounding ring that was where the transfer took place so what it did
was called 555-555-5555 then transfered his call to the phone line say 555-555
-9090.  Now normally not always but when this guy picks up at home give him
the same line 'Is Harry there?' and when he hangs up you should get the dial
tone due to the way the phone company handles the calls.  Many doctors use
this call forwarding device for after hours for them and then some don't.
What I would suggest is at around 9:00 PM some night open your phone book to
the yellow pages and find your local doctors.  Start calling all of them up in
sequence and listen for that ring difference this suggests that the call is
being transfered.  There are actually even some places where it will say
'Please wait your call is being transfered'.  If it does transfer then when
they answer ask for someone and when they hang up wait approximately 20
seconds and it most likely will divert.  Circle their phone number and
continue your search.  

NOTE:  I have stated numerous times to ask for someone like Hank or something.
DO THIS!  If you just sit there they will finally hang up but knowing that it
was a PRANK phone call!  You dont want them to think that because after 
calling every day sometimes they will get very angry and demand that the phone
company put a trace on their line!  The next time you call and just sit there
you are a gonner.  Please at least be considerate to them.  After all it is
their dial tone your'e using!

Yes! Now the 617-655-xxxx diverters still divert except one problem is that
because of the switch alot of people have MCI and MCI can not place 0-700 or
976 numbers and a few others this is why sometimes the diverter really is not
worth anything unless its a 800 divertor which means you did not have to
phreak  to get to it and you can then use the dial tone to call long distance
for free (I prefer this method over code phreaking because it is ALOT safer
and no one gets a crazy phone bill) or if it is not MCI and you yourself has
MCI but can notmake a call you want to make to a 976, 0-700 and so on then you
should use that divertor to do so.

Here are a few divertors I have had for a long time and then a few new ones I
have seen posted around.  Thanks guys and gals for the contribution of them to
all of us and also now that you all now how to find them I would appreciate it
if you would leave me feedback on any BBS I happen to be on that you can find.
(I suggest the BACKDOOR BBS!) if you happen to find a diverter.  Well here
they are.

Obviously the 617-655-xxxx and:

              414-358-0700
              914-698-0131
              914-354-3100
              301-792-2507

	      And some 800 numbers!  These are great.
	      The times given are EST.

	     1-800-327-3535 (ask for DEAN) after 5:30
	     1-800-634-0001 (ask for the # to their service center)
	     1-800-457-0067 (let it ring for quite a long time then swear at
             the guy.  He won't know what your doing!)
	     1-800-222-4435 (After 5:30 tell them you want to rent a car)
	     1-800-638-2000 (Weekends only)

     Well, that is it for now.
