                    
                    PICK YOUR TOLL-CALL FIRM
  
  You can pick your toll-call firm despite your primary carrier. It's
one of the best-kept secrets in the telephone business. None of the many
long-distance companies advertises it. And operators at Pacific Bell and
AT&T won't even admit that it exists,  although  it is a distinct
advantage to the consumer  to know about it.
  The secret:
  If you have already signed up with a long-distance company, you also
can make your long-distance through ANY other long-distance carrier.
  Throughout California,  you  can roam around  among  22  long-
distance companies at will casually using any of them that serve your
area,  without regard to the company you selected  as  your primary
long-distance carrier.
  "Its  the best of all worlds," said a phone industry executive. "I
picked  my primary carrier on a basis of  quality  and  reliability, and
now I pick and choose among the others according to my  needs,  such as
an occasional hour-long call to my  son  at college over another
company's lines that offer cheaper afternoon rates."
  Said an officer of a major long-distance firm:  "If I'm calling home
on  Christmas or Mother's Day and I get a  busy  signal,  I immediately
switch to another company's line to get through." "Competition  is here,
and its working,  in an  instant,"  the officer said.
  An  official at another company said he makes all his  personal
over-seas  calls  on a competing carrier's lines because his  own
company  doesn't  serve many over-seas  countries.  "And  my  own
company  also  charges a premium for calling of the really  small towns
that I call quite often,  so I use still  another  carrier
periodically."
  Such  calls,  known in telecommunications jargon as "Ten Triple XXX
dialing" are automatically billed by Pacific Bell at whatever rates are
established by the long-distance company used  by  the caller. No bill
comes from the company used. Example:
  Under  the  rules governing the breakup of the Bell  System,  a
customer  has  signed up with AT&T to  handle  all  long-distance
calling.  When  the receiver is lifted,  calls automatically  are
handled by AT&T.
  But,  if  the  caller wants to use MCI,  it can be  reached  by
dialing  five digits and then dialing the call.  MCI's five-digit code
is 10222.
  Each  company has a different code,  all beginning with 10  and
followed  by  three numbers.  Because of this its known  as  "Ten Triple
XXX," or simply "the company code."
  Use 10444 for Allnet;  10288 for AT&T or 10777 for Sprint, etc. (See
accompanying chart.)
  Constant users of Ten Triple XXX quickly learn that 10 are  the digits
that make it work and automatically dial 10,  leaving  to memory only
the last three digits.  Two companies have made  it relatively easy:
AT&T is 10 ATT and Sprint is 10 SPR.
  But  the  system doesn't work unless the customer's  phone  has been
converted to the new equal-access system,  which gives  all phone users
equal access to all  long-distance  companies.  When equal  access
arrives in an exchange area,  Pacific Bell  rewires its  telephone
switching  gear so that long-distance  calls  are handled  by whatever
long-distance company has been  selected  by the  customer.  But along
with this new company-selection option, comes  the  added bonus of being
able to use them  all  with  Ten Triple XXX dialing.

                      Ten Triple XXX codes.
         Company                                  Code

         Allnet ................................. 10444
         American Network/Savenet ............... 10311
         American PTT ........................... 10278
         American Telephone Exchange ............ 10050
         Amptelco Systems ....................... 10267
         AT&T ................................... 10288
         Com Systems ............................ 10266
         Comex/Chinamerica ...................... 10788
         CP National ............................ 10276
         Escondido Telephone Co. ................ 10441
         Express Tel. ........................... 10700
         GTE Sprint ............................. 10777
         ITT .................................... 10488
         MCI .................................... 10222
         Republic Telecom ....................... 10001
         SBS .................................... 10888
         Standard Information Services .......... 10747
         TDX Systems ............................ 10223
         Telesphere Network ..................... 10555
         TMC Long Distance ...................... 10007
         U.S. Telecom ........................... 10333
         Western Union .......................... 10220

                           By Charles W. Ross Staff Writer for:
                           The San Diego Evening Tribune
