

Listen to the words of the Phone Goddess, who in days of old was
called Mama Cass, Ma Barker, Moms Mabley, the last of the Red Hot
Mamas, and by many other names not mentionable in mixed company.
Whenever you have need to make a call, preferably long distance,
and better it be when the rates are high, then shall ye assemble your
funds in some convenient place to pay me, who am Queen of all Highway
Robbery. These ye shall assemble, ye who are fain to bankruptcy yet
have not sent me all your earnings. To these shall I send bills as are
yet unheard of. Ye shall be free from bank accounts, as as a sign that
ye be truly free ye shall be naked from my rates. And ye shall sing,
talk, shout, trade gossip and love, all at your own expense. Let your
fingers do the walking through my yellow pages. Let none stop you or
turn you aside, just call information. For mine is the dial tone that
opens upon the busy signal of life, which is the princess phone of
immorality. Mine is the poverty of the masses, and call now, pay
later. For my law is profit before people. Today I give knowlege of
facts you do not wish to have, and tommorrow calls that will sell you
things you do not wish to own. For behold, I demand everything in
sacrifice. I am the next best thing to being there, and my bills are
sent out upon the earth.   (- Magenta G. and Steve P-C, 1982)
 
 
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
