

BUDGETS & TARIFFS   

NETWORK RECONFIGURATION SERVICE, CUSTOMIZED NETSAVER, INFOPATH

NRS on hold in Maine

New England Telephone recently filed tariffs in Vermont, 
Massachusetts, Maine and Rhode Island. Here are descriptions: 
          
                            VERMONT

Network Reconfiguration Service (NRS) provides customers the ability 
to reconfigure and manage their private line networks. Users such as 
the NCR New England Data Center (see story, page 1) have used it for 
disaster prevention and as a vehicle to offer better service to 
their customers. NRS became effective in Vermont on January 27, 1993. 

New Customized NETSAVERsm rates in Vermont (represented below) took 
effect with the first full billing period after April 4, 1993. They 
apply to both inward and outward Customized NETSAVERsm plans. 


Minutes of Number         Current    Proposed
Monthly Usageof YearsRates   Rates
----------------------------------------------------
8,000-15,9991    $.18   $.15
        2         .17    .14
        3         .16    .13
----------------------------------------------------
16,000-31,9991    .17    .15
        2         .16    .14
        3         .15    .13
----------------------------------------------------
32,000-63,9991    .16    .14
        2         .15    .13
        3         .14    .12
----------------------------------------------------
64,000-plus1      .15    .13
        2         .14    .12
        3         .13    .11 

Only regular Customized NETSAVERsm contracts will automatically 
convert to the new rates. Any special contracts will be reviewed on 
a case-by-case basis. 

INFOPATH_: The Vermont Public Service Board approved the following 
changes to the existing INFOPATH_ tariff effective January 1, 1993: 

y an upgrade in speed for public dial access from 2,400 bps to 9,600 
bps. There is no rate increase associated with this speed 
enhancement. 

y digital access to the network using DDS II. Formerly, only analog 
access was offered. A new digital interface was tariffed at $16 per 
month with a $30 nonrecurring charge. 

y a call rerouting feature which includes call redirection and call 
reselection capabilities. This feature is offered for $10 per month. 


                            MASSACHUSETTS

INFOPATH_: The Massachusetts Department of Public 
Utilities also approved the upgrade in speed for public dial access 
from 2,400 bps to 9,600 bps effective January 3, 1993. As in 
Vermont, this change did not affect the rates for public dial 
access. 

                                MAINE 

Network Reconfiguration Service was filed in Maine on February 13, 
1993, and we're waiting for a decision by the Public Utilities 
Commission. 

                            RHODE ISLAND

Network Reconfiguration Service went into effect in Rhode Island on 
April 29, 1993.

