r70




%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

	 How to Raid Your Local
    Central Office or Repair Station
	       Volume II

=======================================

HTRYLCO v2 (C)1990 TC

Written by Phantom Lord/TC

NET Volume 1, Issue 1

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

  Ok.. for all you desperate people
risking your asses scanning all those
950 suffixes, and 800 perfixes bustin
your ass looking for dialups and
systems... STOP! There is a much
easier way... as i have found...

In nearly every city/town in this
country...or nearby, there is at least
one Central office for your area.
This office controlls switching,
billing, and rudimentary maintenence
to the bell lines.
Its amazing how much information,
and believe it or not, equipment, can
be found at these multitudes of
readily accessible locations.

What you must do is look in your phone
book for your local bell office...
then drive to it... it may or may not
be your Central office. drive around
your town untill you find a bell
building that looks like a decent
size. (This isn't absolutely
nescessary... but if you go to the
small places...your less likely to
find anything usefull...)
Most of the larger ones have anywhere
from 1 to 50 bell trucks,cars,and or
vans parked somewhere around them.
Most, as are here, have a wall or
fence of some sort around them.

Now if your lucky to find one... drive
by during the day...dont act
suspicious though... and see where
their dumpsters are located. usually
their located either in an alley
behind the building(s) or next to
them, or if they have a large parking
lot, they may even be near the road.
(wich makes it a little tougher in
some ways).

Ok..after you locate the dumpsters,
watch the place for a week...and see
when they pick up the trash...
You will also figure out when the
personell leave/arrive... if any
deliveries arrive on set days... etc
etc... you can skip this part if ya
wanna be one brave little shit... but
i'd advise against it...

After you watch it for a week or two,
then you should be ready to hit the
place... (no not literally)...
What equipment you should take with
you depends on what your actuall goals
for your little 'evening of fun'
happen to be... If your just going to
grab a shitload of printouts, bills,
cosmos printouts, and that line of
stuff... all you'll need is a few
trash bags, a good flashlight, and
either a fast car, or a good pair of
running shoes (in case ya have to haul
ass out of there)...   Now...if your a
real brave, or ingenious person...(or
possibly even just plain stupid), you
can go for the big one... actually
attempting..and probably succeding, in
entering the bell building(s)
themselves... wich can be a field day
if you get lucky... Many computers,
phones, linemans handsets, cars, vans,
all sorts of electronic heaven can be
found in most Central offices or
repair stations...

Just make sure to wear gloves, and
take either a good lockpicker, or a
crowbar with you... but these are
usually not even needed...as many
times, the bell fools leave several
doors unlocked... but if in fact they
are locked...and you can neither pick
the lock, nor pop the sucker open with
a crowbar, then if you are really
desperate...you can always break out a
window... and no...i dont mean grab a
rock and throw it throug the window
either... tape the ENTIRE window with
duct tape... then when you hit it with
your fist,shoe,head,etc, it wont
explode everywhere... just remember
not to take too much time... and if
your just going thru the dumpsters,
watch out for all those nasty pizza
boxes...those bell slobs are always
messy...   well...if this has helped
anyone good for you... like i said...
its easy... and you can easily find
hundreds of pages of printouts on
anything from ANI to Lmos... if you go
the day before they pick up the
trash.... if not...there may not be
alot... you never can tell...

Hope this shows you the basic methods
of raiding your local Bell CO, the
lack of any common sense makes it a
easy job...believe me it is...

Watch for more 'helpfull' files by
TC soon...

and call these dist. boards for more
TC files and info...

Chaotic Society (419)-726-0125
Atomic Cafe	(817)-465-3271


9: Text Philez P-Z
[UD:Punter][Unltd.Time][UnltdBlk]: