+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
!                       Full-Auto:  An Introduction                           !
!                         By. The Angel of Destiny                            !
!                                                                             !
!                    A Metal Communications Presentation.                     !
!      Metalland  AE/BBS/CATSNED/AE1200.....10megs........(503)538-0761       !
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 
                                 INTRODUCTION
 
  SO YOU WANT TO BE A TERRORIST?  YOU LIKE MAKING HOME-MADE CHEMICAL CAR-BOMBS,
AND MAKING PEOPLE SUFFER, THAT'S NEAT.  BUT I CAN TELL YOU FOR SURE THAT NO
SELF-RESPECTING TERRORIST WOULD GO OUT INTO THE CRUEL WORLD ALL BY HIS LONESOME
WITHOUT A PIECE OF PROTECTION.  I AM OF COURSE TALKING ABOUT SUBMACHINE-GUNS AND
ASSAULT RIFLES.  THERE ARE TIMES WHEN YOU JUST NEED TO HAVE THAT FULL-AUTO
PROTECTION.  WELL, I WILL TRY TO BEGIN TO INFORM YOU ON THE WAYS OF GETTING A
FULL-AUTO FIREARM.  THERE ARE BASICLY TWO:  LEGAL & ILLEGAL.
 
 
                                    LEGAL
 
 
  There are a few ways of going about it legally.  In all cases you need aproval
from the BATF(Bureau of Alchohol, tobacco, and Firearms).  Aproval involves
sending a letter to the BATF telling them where you live, and why you want to
own a full-auto firearm.  When you write this portion of the letter, it would be
a good idea not to tell them you want to blow dudes away with it because you
most probably would not get approval.  Once you get approval, you must pay a
$200 transfer tax.  The big myth that goes arround is that full- auto weapons
are themselves expensive, that's not true, they cost just as much as their
semi-auto counterparts.  The big thing that makes legal full-autos cost so much
is the tax.  Steps.  Everything you do goes in steps, and it's the same with
getting a full-auto.  Here they are...
 
  1.  Choose the gun you want.  You get full-autos from class /// gun dealers.
 
  2.  Add up all the costs for the rifle or SMG and make sure you have enough
      bucks to pay for it.
 
  3.  If you are under 21 years of age, get parents permission to register the
      gun in his/hers name.  Then put his/her name on the letter to the BATF.
 
  4.  Save the gun at the class /// dealership.  Ask owner for help in getting
      BATF's approval, they can tell you all about it, more than I can here, and      
      get all the forms you need.  Remember, the dealers are usually very
      coaprative, mainly because they want to sell their guns.
 
  5.  Get BATF approval.  Pay $200 transfer tax(should already be calculated
      into your expenditure account--see step 2).
 
  6.  Buy your full-auto and take it home.
 
  7.  Take gun to safe place to practice your firing, now that we went through
      all this, we don't want to get in trouble for disturbing the peace, do we? 
 
  Well, that is a VERY basic description of all the things you have to do to get
a LEGAL full-auto.  Remember this, though, your gun is now registered in the
government files as a full-auto hazzard to them.  Be very careful of what you
get caught doing with your piece now that you have it.
 
 
 
                             ILLEGAL
 
  I told you there was two ways, well here is the other one.  Illegal.  That
means if you get caught with one of these you will get the weapon confiscated,
and a massive fine.  Now all that is great, but they do not know you have one
unless you do one of a few things the feds have to tip them off to illegal
full-auto owners.  One is mail-orders.  Some mail orders that you send away for,
like instruction booklets to convert certain guns to full-auto, are just fronts
for the feds.  They send you the booklet, give you time to make the conversion,
then come and bust you for having illegal firearms.  Another thing that tips off
the cops is "concerned citizens" that hear full- autos, and get scared shitless
thinking someone is going to blow them away.  They call the cops, and they come
running, looking for the offender.
                                                                            
  I just thought I would tell you a few of the risk factors before I get into
the actual mechanics of getting illegal full-autos.  If you play it safe, this
method can cost less than buying one legally.  Ok, there are basicly two ways to
get full-autos illegally.  Convert semi-autos to full-auto, or selective fire,
and buying a premade full auto on the black market.
 
  I would not in any way suggest the second method, you get in contact with some
REAL heavy dudes, some real hardasses that would just as soon shoot you as sell
you a gun.  This method is not wise, or prudent, or all that crap, but I told
you about it because it is there, and it is an option.
 
  The conversion of a semi-auto to full-auto is usually a complicated process,
and the methods are different for each different kind of rifles.  The AR-15/M-16
is the one exeption to this rule.  It is extreemly easy to conver to full-auto.
But anyhow, the way you go through it is you first choose yourself a good
semi-auto rifle that uses a box magazine(also called "clip").  It is also
preferable to buy a well known semi-auto so the clips are cheap, and conversion
plans are readily available.  A good example would be Uzi, AR- 15, Mini-14,
Mac-10, KG-99 or other good, common guns.  All right, so now you have a gun
picked out in your mind.  Send for a manual that explains the procedure for
converting your gun.  It is very important that when you do this, you buy from a
well known publisher like Palidin Press, or Bill Moore Publications.  Ok now,
very carefully follow the instructions to the letter.  You do not want ot screw
up your firearm by grinding in the wrong place, or throwing away the wrong part. 
 
  This is basicly all I can tell you because it is a very complicated procedure
that takes alot of time to explain, but I can give something of use to all of
you who own a Mini-14.  You know, made by Ruger.  When I tell you this, I am
assuming you know at least a little bit about your gun.  If you don't know a
fuck about the insides of the Mini-14 leave it the hell alone!  I don't want you
to screw it up on account of me.
 
  Ok, look in the manual that came with your gun.  There is a part called the
secondary sear.  This is what prevents your Mini from being Mighty.  Take apart
the mechansm and remove the secondary sear & the spring behind it.  Reassemble
the mechanism, making sure you don't forget to put all the other peices in their
right places.  Your rifle is now a slam-firing full auto.  Keep the secondary
sear, in a safe place, because to convert it back to semi- auto, and back to
legal, you just put in the secondary sear.  Remember, this method is the
"cheapo" and converts your Mini to fullo-auto only.  When you load it up and
pull the trigger, it will fire about two shots if you just snap the trigger and
release it quickly.  DO NOT HOLD THE TRIGGER DOWN!!!!  This will cause the
firearm to become uncontrolable, and thus dangerous to yourself as well as
others.
 
  That's all for now, but be looking for my follow-up articles on how to convert
  Uzis, AR-15s, and KG-99s.  Stay sane, and kill a commie for mommie!
 
 
            I hope you have enjoyed to this to the fullest!
 
                             Later,
 
                                The Angel of Destiny.
 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
Be looking for the next Metal Communications Presentation.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
 
