<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
<|                                                                          |>
<|                      How to be a real Druguser                           |>
<|                      <<<<<<<<<<<<|>>>>>>>>>>>>                           |>
<|                                                                          |>
<|                         by:Jolly*Roger                                   |>
<|                                                                          |>
<|                                of                                        |>
<|                                                                          |>
<|                Neon Knights/Metal Communications                         |>
<|                                                                          |>
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>


Okay, so your saying to yourself, "Why is this guy telling me how to be a
Druguser?" Well because drugs are great to take to parties and share with girls,
take before you go home and have to face the folks, or just when your sitting
around trying to deal with reality! There God's gift to us so we can say 'What
the fuck!' when we want too.

Now that we got that over with, here is what ya have to do:

   First, depending on what kind of mood your in and how much of a cash flow you
have go buy some drugs. If you don't have a whole lot of money then go buy some
Weed (Herb, Grass, Marijuana and for all you smartasses Cannabis Hemp). Get a
good amount, say an ounce or so. On the way back from talking to your friendly
local dealer, you may want to stop by the good old paraphernalia shop and pick
up some equipment. I recommend steamroller type bong. There not to expensive and
they cut down on smoke loss that could be in your lungs affecting you.

   The next drug, and probably the most exspensive, is Coke. This stuff is great
because it's compact and can be taken everywhere, including the class room while
the teacher is rattling on about something stupid. While in the classroom, just
lay down a couple lines get out the Burgerking straw,and walah! A portable
party! Boy aren't we having fun now! When buying coke, it's good to buy massive
quantities as it usually runs out quick once you start. Coke users who buy big
amounts always like to make halves with it. For example: I go and buy my usual
amount of 1/4 an ounce. Then starts the fun part! Playing with the Coke. We make
1/4 into 1/8ths onto 1/16ths until we work our way down to grams. then we start
the snorting. Mmmm, ahhh that feels awesome! hold on, gotta the sniffles.........

   Okay, now that we've covered the 2 most popular drugs, let's take on to the
Psychedelic drugs. We'll start off with Acid, or Trip. This stuff is great, it's
also cheap and plentiful. Another good thing about it is that it lasts 8-12
hours, which means I can take one at breakfast and get through school, and I
won't be down until say, around dinner. Aren't you glad you now know these
little known facts about drugs?

   Let's go into another very little known, natural drug: Psychedelic 'Shrooms.
These little fuckers go great in salads, stews, gravies, and soups. They add
that little extra touch mom has been looking for in her cooking (Boy won't mom
and dad be funny looking after dinner!) Well now that we've had a nice drug out
day, it's Miller time! Go buy that ice-cold case of beer and start slamming,
because every drug user knows, there's nothing like a cold beer to get rid of
that cotton-mouth!


<><><><><><><><>N<>E<>O<>N<><>K<>N<>I<>G<>H<>T<>S<><><><><><><><><><><>

          I would like to thank the following for inspiration:

  Kurt, Satan, Dave, Black Sabbath, The Duke, Tony, My Brain, My Drug Dealer,
  My parents (Who gimme my allowance that I use to 'play video games', and The
  Roach.

                Call these boards:

            Metalland I  503/538-0761 AE/BBS/CF 10 MEGS
            The Metal AE  (201)-879-(666)8  PW:KILL
            Seven Cities of Gold 307/382-4006 10 megs BBS/AE

<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
	
