{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}                     Picking Combination Locks                    {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}                A Metal Communications Presentation               {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}                    Written by:  The Byte Byter                   {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=} The writer of this text file takes <all> responsibility for what {=--=}
{=--=} this text file is used for. Hopefully it will only be used for   {=--=}
{=--=} illegal purposes cuz i can't think of a reason it can be used for{=--=}
{=--=} legally. Well, on with the text file.                            {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}
{=--=} Call: /\/\etalland 1  10megs AE/BBS/Cat-Fur Line! [503]538-0761  {=--=}
{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}


     Ok, so ya say ya wanna learn how to pick combination locks...This text 
file should help you. As a matter of fact, if ya do it right, it will help you. 
First of all, let me tell you about the set-up of a lock. When the lock is 
locked, there is a curved piece of metal wedged inside the little notch on the 
horseshoe shaped bar that is pushed in to the lock when you lock it. To free 
this wedge, you must (must is a word used to much) you usually (that sounds 
much better) have to turn the lock to the desired combination and the pressure 
on the wedge is released therefore letting the lock open. I will now tell you 
how to make a pick so you can open a lock without having to waste all that time 
turning the combination (this also helps when ya don't know the combination to 
begin with). First of all, ya need to find a hairpin. What's a hairpin? Well, 
just ask your mom. She will have one. If she asks what its for, say ya gotta 
hold something together... If she says use a rubberband or use a paperclip, 
tell her to fuck off and die and then go to the store and rip off a box of 50 
or so. Ok, enough stalling (yea, I was stalling). Once you have your hair pin 
(make sure its metal), take the ridged side and break it off right before it 
starts to make a U-turn onto the straight side. The curved part can now be used 
as a handle. Now, using a file, file down the other end until it is fairly 
thin. You should do this to many hairpins and file them so they are of 
different thicknesses so you can pick various locks. Some locks are so cheap 
that ya don't even have to file! But most are not. Ok, now you have a lock 
pick. Now if ya haven't figured it out, here's how ya use it. You look at a 
lock to see which side the lock opens from. If you can't tell, you will just 
have to try both sides. When ya find out what side it opens from, take the 
lock pick and stick the filed end into the inside of the horseshoe-shaped bar 
on whichever side the lock opens from. Now, put pressure on the handle of the 
lock pick (pushing down, into the crack) and pull the lock up and down. The 
lock will then open because the pick separated the wedge and the notch allowing 
us thieves to open it. Don't say bullshit until you've tried it. Because I have 
gotten lots of beer money from doin' this to fellow students' gym lockers. 
Also, this technique works best on American locks. I have never picked a Master 
lock before because of the shape a pressure of the wedge but if anyone does it, 
let me know how long it took. Also, the Master lock casing is very tight so ya 
can't get the pick in. So, if you're locking something valuable up, use a 
Master, cuz at least ya know I won't be picking it and I'm sure there aren't 
that many that could. And when I say pick, I don't mean lighting a stick of 
dynamite next to the lock, picking is opening a lock without using force, 
making a substitute key, etc... If any of you believe that this information is 
not sufficient for picking an American lock, or any other kind besides Master, 
leave me a message at /\/\etallant 1 (503) 538-0761.  
     This concludes my text file on picking combination locks. My next text 
file will probably be "Picking key locks". See ya later.
                                                         The Byte Byter
                                                         ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^
