{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}                      The Art of Smoking Pot                      {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}                A Metal Communications Presentation               {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}               Written and Smoked by:  The Byte Byter             {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=} The sole purpose of this article is to let people that are begin-{=--=}
{=--=} ning to smoke pot know the various ways of smoking it and how to {=--=}
{=--=} get the most out of the pot that you risked all that time & money{=--=}
{=--=} to get.  I would just like to state that I do not approve of any {=--=}
{=--=} legal uses of this article (i.e. smoking tobacco, etc...).  This {=--=}
{=--=} <is> for smoking pot only.  If you have anything to say against  {=--=}
{=--=} this article then fuck off cuz I have the right to write whatever{=--=}
{=--=} I want as a U.S. citizen (even if it is about something that is  {=--=}
{=--=} against the law in the United States).  Also, if you don't like  {=--=}
{=--=} this text file just delete it.  It won't hurt my feelings.       {=--=}
{=--=}                                                                  {=--=}
{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}
{=--=} Call: /\/\etalland I  10megs AE/BBS/Cat-Fur Line. [503]538-0761  {=--=}
{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}{=--=}

Ok, so ya say ya want to learn the various ways to smoke pot.  Well, you've
come to the right place.  The techniques i will discuss in this text file are
smoking pot with bowls, bulldozers, pens, and bongs.  I will tell you the eas-
iest ways to make these and how to use them.  First of all, pot is a slang term
for Cannibis Savita or Marijuana.  Oh, maybe i will even tell you how to make
your Marlboro box into a Marijuana box.  This is pretty cool.  A teacher at my
school did it for my friend ( yeah, no joke).  Ok, lets get on with the text
file.

     Ok, the first way that most of you pot smokers have smoked pot was in a
joint (for you assholes that don't know yet, this is a marijuana cigarette or
in my case, a marijuana cigar).  Well, ya always end up with this stupid
little roach (the butt of the joint).  Ok, I will tell you how to smoke this.
(This is an original. I invented it.) First you take a Papermate or an Eraser-
mate pen and poke out the back end so there is a small hole.  Then, you take
the writing part of the pen out and you should be able to see through one side
and out the other (it should look like a spit ball shooter).  Ok, you take the
roach and put it in the small hole and then you the writing side of the pen as
the mouthpiece.  You get a 100% hit using this method if the roach is in the
hole 100%.  I use this for smoking whole joints because they last longer this
way.  Just smoking the joint without this <pen> you would probably take in
75% pot, 25% air and that's not good is it?  Of course not.
     Now we will discuss the bulldozer.  A bulldozer is sort of like a water
bong except there is no water.  First you obtain an empty roll of toilet paper
( the cardboard part).  Then you cut out a hole on one of the sides about 1/2
inch in diameter.  Make sure this hole is toward the one of the ends.  Next,
take a piece of tinfoil about 2 square inches and put it in the hole so there
is a cup made out of the tinfoil in the hole.  Next take some tape and tape the
tinfoil that is outside of the hole onto the cardboard roll so the tinfoil
doesn't fall out.  Now, take a pin and poke 6 to 8 small holes in the cupped
part of the tin foil.  The bulldozer is finished.  Now how to use it...
Put the end farthest away from the tinfoil against your mouth.  Then take your
hand and cover the other hole with your hand.  Make sure there are no air
openings to disrupt it.  Now light it and take a hit.  When you're almost fin-
ished with your drag, take your hand off the hole and then breathe in the rest
of the smoke still in the roll.  The reason for this is when you have your hand
on the hole you are sucking in smoke thru the tinfoil part and when you let
go of the hole with your hand the air pressure is gone and therefore you don't
suck any more smoke thru the tinfoil.  So if you kept your hand on for the full
hit you would waste precious pot by letting all the smoke in the roll get out
after your hit.  Well, on to the next one (I better hurry up.  I want to smoke
something I mean do something pretty soon.).
     Hmm...Ah yes, bowls.  I like bowls.  You'll like science class when I tell
you about this one.  Ok, ya know those valves that say GAS on them?  Well that'
is what i made mine out of.  I found one that was loose and I unscrewed it and
took it home.  I then took some tinfoil and put it in the end that screwed into
the fixture that I took it from.  I then poked 3 or 4 small holes in the tin-
foil and i then had a pretty deep bowl ( I forgot.  If any of you don't know,
a bowl is a pipe).  Ok, I then used the part where the gas comes out as the
mouthpiece.  I thought this was a kick ass bowl because you could turn it off
and on!.  It was also good for playing tricks on people.  Turn in off when the
other person knows nothing about pot, and then watch him act stoned!.  There
are many other ways to make bowls so experiment.
     Now we are down to water bongs.  My friend made this one that i will explai
in how to make.  Ok, go to the store and get a one-quart plastic bottle of milk
Then get rid of the milk.  Hmm...this will get complicated.  Ok, i will have
you smoke joints thru this. Ok, now make a hole about 5 inches from the bottom
of the container and make this hole just big enough to fit a pen in.  That's
right.  You're gonna use a joint smoking pen that I discussed in the first para-
graph.  Ok, now stick the pen in the hole and melt the plastic container around
the hole so the pen will be air tight(you might wanna try using super glue or
something else instead of trying to melt it).  Now, cut a hole small enough so
that your thumb can cover it about 2 or 3 inches higher than the pen and on the
same side as the pen.  Now fill the milk container about 4 to 4 and 1/2 inches
with water( its kick ass if ya fill it with Jack Daniels or BEER ).  You now
have a water bong.  Now how to use it.  Put a joint into the pen, put your
mouth on the mouth of the milk container(this is at the top of the bottle), put
your thumb on the thumb hole, and light the joint.  As I said with the bull-
dozer, take your thumb off the hole towards the end of the hit.  Ok, now that
you know all the kick ass ways to smoke pot, always use JOB papers.  These are
the best.
     And now, since you have all these ways to smoke pot, but not a way to carry
y it, I will explain how to make a Marijuana box class a cigarettes.  First buy
a pack of Marlboro box from the local store.  Now i will tell you which letters
to change.  Keep M-a-r the same, and erase the top half of l and put a dot
above it so it is now an i.  Now erase the backwards c on the b in Mariboro. It
should now read Maril oro.  Next erase the top half of the l that you made and
put a dot above it.  It should now say Marii oro.  Now put a hook at the bottom
of the i to make the j.  It now reads Marij oro (you should be marking in these
changes with dark black marker and don't smear it).  Now slip a u in between the
e j and the o so it says Marijuoro.  Now you can be un professional and just
put little tails on the 2 o's to make them a's or you can do some erasing and
make the 2 o's exactly like the a after the M.  It should now look like this:
Marijuara.  Now all ya have to do is change the r to an n and you have it!
It finally says Marijuana. And now, after typing this long text file, I have
to distribute it.  If you have any comments or any new ideas, please leave me
a message on Metalland 1.  The number is (503) 538-0761.
     See ya later and get stoned,
                                 The Byte Byter
                                 ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^
                                 ||| |||| |||||
                                 ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^

This text file was written on 06/22/85.                                                  
