
*******************************************************************************
  From: Ammond Shadowcraft                            Msg Num:    95 of    97
    To: All                                          Date: 26 Feb 92 08:35:00
  Subj: Please consider this Disclaimer
  Attr:                                                               Read: N
  Conf: Article Echo Of The MagickNet Trio
*******************************************************************************
A Request From A Concerned Participant

Please accept my apologies for this, but at this point I feel it
necessary to ask for the sysop's consideration on a minor
matter.

WHEREAS: About a year and a half ago Tim Maroney wrote an article
focusing on the Temple of Set's Order of the Trapezoid. In this
article Tim Maroney attempts to justify his claim that the Temple of
Set is fascist, and afterward in other forums, is also racist.  When
Tim Maroney wrote this particular article I gave Maroney the benefit
of doubt and answered his article reasonably by saying that from my
personal knowledge the ToS was neither fascist nor racist.
Answering along with me was one Oz Tech, a III'd degree (Priestess),
a black woman and a Knight of the Order of the Trapezoid. She
responded along with me that from personal knowledge the Order was
neither fascist nor racist. Some days later Dr.  Michael Aquino, the
High Priest of the Temple of Set, a minority himself, answered Tim's
accusations by responding that the Temple of Set is not fascist (in
fact the ToS is greatly concerned with individual rights and freedom
of religion) and is relatively indifferent to the state.  Further
Dr.  Aquino told the readers that Tim Maroney did not even extend to
Aquino the common courtesy of letting Aquino read and comment on the
article before Tim released it to the public.

After eighteen months of relatively little continuing dispute the
issue was brought up in THE_BASE_OF_SET echo whereupon I reminded
the participants of the above facts. In this echo one Balanone, a
high Initiate and member of the Temple of Set for over a decade,
replied that from his personal knowledge the Temple is not fascist
and is relatively less racist than the public at large. In point of
fact Balanone is of Jewish heritage. I have informed the
participants (which includes Tim Maroney) that while Tim Maroney is
baiting the Temple via virtual (or cyberspace) defecation on Dr.
Michael Aquino, that Dr.  Aquino does not run the Temple. The Temple
of Set is run by a duly elected Board of Directors (including women)
of which the Head of that board is a person of minority descent--a
Jew, and by the Priesthood (of which race is not a qualifier) at
large. Thus Tim Maroney's allegations are proved fully wrong.

To this date, after more than a year, Tim Maroney has neither
offered an apology to those whose reputations he has attempted to
damage, nor has he offered to retract his irresponsible and
fallacious "Nazi Trapezoid" article. After watching his actions over
the years I can only conclude that Tim Maroney is, in this
particular matter, acting irresponsibly and/or
obsessive/compulsively with respect to the Temple of Set.

THEREFORE I ask the sysops to consider the idea that to continue
to propagate an irresponsible attack upon an institution (which has
survived federal scrutiny and personal deprivations over the years)
would poorly serve the network and the participants of that network.

THEREFORE I ask the sysops to consider putting a disclaimer with
Tim Maroney's Nazi-Trapezoid article indicating something like the
following...

    "In this article Tim Maroney alleges that the Temple of Set's
Order of the Trapezoid is Nazi sympathetic and by extension, the
Temple of Set is fascist.  He offers as proof the fact that the
Temple of Set's Reading List Category 14 is full of Nazi sympathetic
works.  With a few meager points Tim Maroney alleges that the Temple
of Set is Nazi sympathetic--ie. fascist and racist.

    "Tim Maroney fails to mention that the Reading List contains a
number of books, some written from a pro-Nazi standpoint, some
written from anti-Nazi stand and some neutral. Tim Maroney also
refuses to consider the fact that Dr. Aquino is a Phd. in political
science and serves his (Aquino's) organization well by assuring the
readers of the Reading List they have a complete view of this very
emotional subject. Further more, four persons, Dr. Michael
Aquino--High Priest of the Temple of Set, one Balanone--a high
Initiate of the Temple of Set (and of Jewish descent) and member for
over 10 years, one Oz Tech, a black Priestess (III' degree) and
Knight of the Order of the Trapezoid, and Ammond Shadowcraft, a
Setian I', informed Tim Maroney that from their personal experience
*neither* the Temple of Set nor the Order of the Trapezoid is
fascist or racist in policy or practice.

     "To this date (February 1992) after almost a year and a half,
Tim Maroney has offered neither an apology to the Temple membership
nor has he offered to update or retract his apparently irresponsible
article. Therefore please be warned that this particular article is
flawed in that the author is obviously in some adversarial
relationship with the Temple of Set. There are two sides to this
article. Tim presents only his side.

     "To further compound this problem Tim Maroney has uploaded the
article on various machines on the Internet and FidoNet. Tim Maroney
has lost control of the article and thus the Temple of Set is robbed
of any possible reasonable response to or from the future readers of
this article.
                                Ammond Shadowcraft, Feb 1992"

While I doubt that any legal problems could resolve from carrying
this article it seems unethical to let such an irresponsible article
stand alone and unanswered. Apparently Tim has uploaded this article
on many different machines and now no one knows where these copies
reside. Please look at your text files to see if this article is
present and please consider disclaiming the article.

The above disclaimer relates only to Tim Maroney's Nazi-Trapezoid
article and none other. However should a sysop decided to delete
the article entirely I suppose that such an action is entirely
reasonable.

I apologize for any inconvenience this request might incur.

For more information please contact the Temple at the following
address:

TEMPLE OF SET
Post Office Box 470307
San Francisco, CA 94147; U.S.A.
MCI-Mail: 314-3953
Telex: 6503143953

-!- QuickBBS 2.75 Ovr
 ! Origin: CRYSTAL CAVE DAS MAGICKAL TREFFPUNKT 719-391-1092 (93:9510/0)
