                           T H E   W A T C H E R
                           =====================

New Zealand Voice of                                    Jan/Feb/Mar 1990 e.v.
The Left-Hand Path                                      Issue No. 1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  OUR AIM

        The aim of The Watcher is to serve as a forum for a broad spectrum
of opinion within the range of the Left-Hand Path.
        Our journal is named in honour of the fabled Order of the Watchers
who, under the leadership of Azazel, and at the instigation of Satan,
rebelled against the tyrant-god Jehovah, descending to earth to establish
familial relations with the "daughters of man".  The offspring "became
mighty men which were of old men of renown." (Gen.  6:1-5).
        The Watchers, according to the apocraphyl Enoch, taught their wives
magic and botany, while Azazel taught man the craft of metallurgy, and
introduced "the evil art of cosmetics."
        The tyrant-god in retaliation, brought forth The Deluge, imprisoned
Azazel in the desert until the final judgement, when he will be hurled into
everlasting fire, and made the Watchers look on while their children were
killed.  They were then bound in the valleys of the earth, so the legend
goes, until the day when they will be cast into eternal torment in an abyss
of fire.
        Satan and The Watchers are thus symbols of rebellion against
tyrannical god and moral concepts which stifle human ascent.  We take our
stand on the side of rebellion leading to liberation from slave religions,
moralities and ideologies, the chief one being in the West at this time
Judaeo-christianity, with Marxism and the Puritan money ethic (ideological
liberalism) being excrescences of this heritage.
        As advocates of continuing human ascent - biological, spiritual and
intellectual - we adherents of the Left-Hand Path embrace the spirit of the
fabled Order of Watchers for Liberty and progress.  We shout:  Hail Satan!
Hail the Watchers!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Satan is the first free-thinker and Saviour of the world.  He frees Adam
and impresses the seal of humanity and liberty on his forehead by making
him disobedient."
        -Mikhail Bakunin, Russian anarchist philosopher.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         THE BIBLE IN THE BALANCE

                    PART I : MARRIAGE & BLOOD SACRIFICE

        The two most common accusations against Satanists/Witches have
traditionally been their supposed disruption, by hexing, of the christ
ordained family concept (causing impotence in husbands, and so forth, ref.
Maleus Malleficarum) and blood sacrifice.
        It is said that The Devil quotes scripture to prove his point.  Let
us therefore see what the Judaeo-christian scriptures themselves have to
say on the subjects of marriage, the family and blood sacrifice:

BLOOD SACRIFICE: SATANIC OR JEHOVIC?

        Whether or not Satanists have inappropriately indulged in ritual
killing in the past, it is a fact that blood-sacrifice is sanctioned by the
Judaeo-Christian god; it is a hangover from the primitive past, a part of
both pagan and Judaeo-Christian religious heritages, but where is there a
specific Satanic sanctioning for it?
        Turning to Genesis, we find that Jehovah was pleased with Abel's
blood sacrifice, while he rejected the fruit offering of Cain, "a tiller of
the ground." Genesis, Ch.  4.
        Since Jehovah is supposed to possess precognition he presumably
knew in advance that his rejection of Cain's noble offering would result in
dispute between the brothers and lead to murder.  Jehovah was therefore
guilty of setting-up Cain, but nevertheless it's always his hapless human
children who must take the rap for his own lunatic whims and actions.
        The supremacy of blood sacrifice was therefore clearly established
in the first chapter of the Old Testament, and culminates in the blood
sacrifice of the tyrant-god's own alleged son in the New Testament.
        In other books of the Old Testament blood sacrifice - both human
and animal - is specifically sanctioned as an appropriate offering to
Jehovah.
        After giving birth it was commanded of Israelite women that they
must bring a lamb as a burnt offering before Jehovah, and a young pigeon,
or a turtledove for a sin offering, "unto the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation, unto the priest:  who shall offer it before the Lord and make
an atonement for her; and she shall be cleansed from the issue of her
blood.
        "And if she be not able to bring a lamb, then she shall bring two
turtles, or two young pigeons..." Lev.  12:6-8.
        In accordance with a deal he made with Jehovah to "offer up as a
burnt offering" the first to come from his house to meet him after
slaughtering the Ammonites, Jephthah sacrificed his daughter.  Judges,
11:29-39.
        II Samuel records that David allowed the Gibeonites to sacrifice
then sons of Saul before Jehovah to end a famine.  II Samuel, 21:  1-14.


MARRIAGE AND THE FAMILY

        Christians like to pose as the champions of family values.
        The Christian doctrine towards the family may be discerned from
this passage in the New Testament, when Jesus sates:  "Suppose ye that I am
come to give peace on earth?  I tell you, nay, but rather division; for
from henceforth there shall be five in one household divided, three against
two, and two against three.  The father shall be divided against the
daughter, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter,
and the daughter against the mother; the mother-in-law against her
daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law."
 Luke, 12:  51-53
        Probably many of us know examples of families split apart by
religious division.  Here is the divine sanctioning for it, and for the
religious civil wars which have afflicted Western civilization for
centuries, including the present-day Irish 'troubles.'
        The Christian view of marriage is elaborated upon by Paul in a
really neurotic chapter of his First Epistle to the Corinthians.  I
Corinthians, 7:  1-9.
        Paul recommends that "it is good for a man not to touch a woman."
But if he really must then this must be done within marriage "to avoid
fornication."
        "Let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own
husband...  but I speak this by permission, and not of commandment, for I
would that all men were even as I myself...  I say therefore to the
unmarried and the widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I am,
but if they cannot contain, let them marry:  for it is better to marry than
to burn."
        Paul's neurotic and base discourse reduces marriage to nothing more
than avoiding punishment for fornication, if one cannot contain oneself and
really must associate with women.

                                   * * *

        Fables can have much to teach us.  Even the Judaeo-Christian fables
can be instructive to the Satanist.  While the fervent Christian
hysterically condemns Satan as the instigator of the family conflict,
malicious deeds against humanity, sowing discord and demanding blood
sacrifice, we may turn to his own sources and expose his charges as nothing
more than the projection of his tyrant-god's own foul creed upon that of
his great Adversary and benefactor to humanity - Satan.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        ALEISTER CROWLEY : SATANIST
                              by 'Thelemite'

  --------------------------  HYMN TO LUCIFER  ------------------------------

              Ware, nor of good nor ill, what aim hath act?
              Without its climax, death, what saviour hath
              Life? an impeccable machine, exact
              He paces an inane and pointless path
              To glut brute appetites, his sole content
              How tedious were he fit to comprehend
              Himself! More, this our noble element
              Of fire in nature, love in spirit, unkenned
              Life hath no spring, no axle, and no end.

              His body a blood-ruby radiant
              With noble passion, sun-souled Lucifer
              Swept through the dawn colossal, swift aslant
              On Eden's imbecile perimeter.
              He blessed nonentity with every curse
              And spiced with sorrow the dull soul of sense,
              Breathed life into the sterile universe,
              With Love and Knowledge drove out innocence
              The Key of Joy is disobedience.

        According to Israel Regardie, "anyone who says Crowley was a
Satanist and a devil-worshipper should have his head examined."
        Crowley's own references to Satan are stated by Regardie as being
due to his desire to shock, be defiant, sarcastic or witty.  (Regardie, The
Eye in the Triangle).
        Let us therefore consider the writings of Crowley himself to see
whether the 'Satanism' of this remarkable personality can be so readily
dismissed.
        Crowley's literary executor and biographer, John Symonds, writes:
"Crowley's philosophy takes a bit from here and a bit from there...  but...
he was more a Satanist than anything else.  'I serve my great Master
Satan', he wrote in one of his franker confessions, 'and that august
Council composed of Beelzebub, Lucifuge, Asmodeus, Belphegor, Baal,
Adrammelech, Lilith and Nahema.':  (John Symonds, The Great Beast).

RESTORING DEVIL WORSHIP

        In his major work Magick in Theory & Practice, Crowley describes
the manner in which Satan fits into his intricate cosmology:  the Aeon of
Horus, which he believed he was destined and chosen to proclaim to mankind,
includes the formula FIAOF of which the 'O' component is "The exalted
'Devil' (also the other secret Eye [phallic worship]) by the formula of the
initiates of Horus...  This 'Devil' is called Satan or Shaitan, and
regarded with horror by people who are ignorant of his formula...
        "...  We have therefore no scruple in restoring the 'devil worship'
of such ideas...
        "Thus the 'Devil' is Capricornus, the Goat who leaps upon the
loftiest mountains, the Godhead which, became manifest in man, makes him
Aegipan, the All."

DEFINING THE DEVIL

        Crowley's conception of the 'Devil' is not too far removed from
that of contemporary Satanists.  Crowley states that "The Devil does not
exist", but then goes on to explain that "The 'Devil' is, historically, the
God of any people that one personally dislikes.  This has led to so much
confusion of though that the Beast 666 [Crowley] has preferred to let names
stand as they are, and to proclaim simply that Aiwaz -
solar-phallic-hermetic - 'Lucifer' - is his own Holy Guardian Angel [Higher
Self] and 'the Devil' Satan or Hadit of our particular unit of the Starry
Universe.  This Serpent, Satan is not the enemy of man, but he who made
gods of our race, knowing Good and Evil..."
        In his ritual for the Attainment of Knowledge and Conversation of
his Holy Guardian Angel, Crowley identifies himself as the servant of
Satan, "the Devil, out Lord..." ...  "whose number of magick is 666, the
seal of his servant the Beast"(Crowley).
        The occult author Kenneth Grant, a former student of Crowley's and
head of an English OTO lodge, comments that "this whole ritual is an
invocation of Shaitan (Satan) or Set", Crowley's aim being union "with his
Angel, Shaitan-Aiwaz."
        Satan is, in Crowley's cosmology, "the Sun-Father, the vibration of
Life that Flames with this cosmic Energy", the solar-Phallic Current.
        In a ritual "to invoke the Energies of the Aeon of Horus, the
ritual of the Mark of the Beast", the powers of ShT are called forth, ShT
being Set/Satan/Shaitan, on which, writes Grant, "are concentrated the
magical energies of the New Aeon."

CULT OF SHAITAN

        Grant, in contradiction to Regardie, writes that Crowley's Thelemic
philosophy (a synthesis of Nietzscheanism, Eastern and Western mysticism,
gnosticism and mythology expressed in his own powerful poetical style) is
Satanic or Shaitanic.
        Grant writes that Shaitan was the Chaldean form of the Egyptian
Set.  "The cult of Shaitan was established in Sumer by the prophet Yezid...
Crowley...  revived the cult of Shaitan or Set." (Grant, Outside The
Circles of Time).
        It was Shaitan whom Crowley equated with Aiwaz, his own unconscious
(Holy Guardian Angel); it was Baphomet, the idol of the Templars which
Crowley adopted as one of his titles, which he equates with the 'Devil'
(Crowley, 777 & Other Qabalistic Writings) and who but an inspired Satanist
could write these powerful lines (?):

        "With my Hawk's head I peck at the eyes of Jesus as he hangs upon
the cross.
        "I flap my wings in the face of Mohammed and blind him.
        "With my claws I tear out the flesh of the Indian and the Buddhist,
Mongol and Din.
        "Bahlasti!  Ompehda!  I spit on your crapulous creeds.
        "Let Mary inviolate be torn upon wheels:  for her sake let all
chaste women be utterly despised among you!" (Liber AL).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            A SATANIC DIRECTORY

1.  Church of Satan.  Founded 1966 by Anton S.  LaVey, author of The
Satanic Bible and The Satanic Rituals.  Box 210082, San Francisco, CA.
94121 USA.

2.  The Black Flame.  Quarterly magazine adhering to the Church of Satan.
Editor:  Peter H.  Gilmore.  Box 499, Radio City station, NY, NY 10101.

3.  Church of S.A.T.A.N.  Founded by Rev.  Yaj Nomolos, publishes the
monthly Trident.  Rev.  Nomolos is author of a number of books on Satanic
philosophy and ritual including, Social Realism & The Second Coming,
Citizen Satan, Satanic Rites & Ceremonies.

4.  The Raven School/Church of the Raven, founded by High Priest Luther,
who runs a correspondence course on Satanism and issues Cry of the Raven.
Box 321 Meredosia, IL.  62665 USA.

5.  Order of the Nine Angles.  Publishes quarterly Fenrir, and The Black
Book of Satan.  Describes itself as adhering to "traditional Satanism",
"committed to increasing our conscious evolution as individuals." Write:
Thormynd Press, Box 4, Church Stretton, Shropshire 5Y6 6ZZ England.

6.  The 88 Temple Ov Deities.  Formed in 1987 by A.L.  Souto.  Combines
Satanism and Qabalistic ritual.  The Temple is producing industrial and
ritual music with its own band Daab-Soul Destruction and issues a
newsletter and other publications.  Box 4546 Miami, Fl.  33014-0546.



When Writing to any of these groups please remember to enclose a few
dollars donation to cover postage, etc.  The Watch will regularly report on
these and other Satanic groups as our contacts expand.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Available from Order of the Left-Hand Path:
ESSAYS ON SATANISM - By Faustus Scorpius
$2.00 (Cheques payable to "Realist Publications")
Overseas, add $2.00 postage (Air)

Anton S. LaVey's
The Satanic Bible & The Satanic Rituals are available in NZ from:
                             Pathfinder Books
                    Old Customhouse, Customs St. Auck.
                      or, Cubacade, Cuba Mall, Wgtn.

For an introductory information packet send 2 x 40c stamps to O.L.H.P.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Watcher is published quarterly by the Order of the Left-Hand Path.
Articles, letter and advertisements welcome.  Signed articles do not
necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editor.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

                         SUBSCRIBE TO THE WATCHER

Name_____________________________________________

Address_______________________________________________________________________

One Year - NZ:  $4.00; Overseas - Surface:  $5.00; Air:  $10.00

                 Cheques payable to "Realist Publications"

To:  P.O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington, New Zealand

IF A TICK APPEARS IN THE BOX YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS NOW DUE [ ]

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Notes:

        The Watcher is brought to you in a slightly altered form on the
computer.  It lacks the pictures and title art of the original and has been
slightly restructured with respect to placement of advertisements and
subscription form.
        These issues of The Watcher are fairly old.  If you are considering
ordering anything from this issue it may be advisable to check out the
latest prices first.

                                 * - * - *

                    Typed in by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

