                           T H E   W A T C H E R
                           =====================

N.Z. Voice of the                                       Issue No.2
Left-Hand Path                                          April/May/June 1990CE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            SATANISM & MORALITY

        "My friends are into evil spirits and messing with Satanism.  The
boy who is the leader of this is a good friend.  He is into heavy metal and
has satanic symbols on his bedroom wall.  He is leading my friends astray.
I've told him that he shouldn't mess with that kind of stuff and he says,
'I know, I won't do it again', but it happens all the time.  My friends are
all I've got.  I've had dreams of them dying and me left behind.  I'm
terribly scared.  My friends have started drugs and drinking.  Is there
someone out there who cares?  We're only 16.  I ask for prayer to give me
strength with God to get them out of this mess, before it's too late.  I
beg you."                       name withheld, New Zealand.
        The above lament appeared in the letters columns of The Plain Truth
(March 1990), published by the Worldwide Church of God.
        Note how 'Satanism' is linked to alcohol, drugs, death, and heavy
metal.
        Contrary to Christian hysteria, the predominant negative influence
impacting upon the youths mentioned in the above-quoted letter, and
thousands of other throughout the Western world, is not genuine Satanism.
It is rather, a spurious Christian concoction which they have turned to as
a rejection of the repression, hypocrisy and unreality of Christianity,
which has failed to give them a positive lead.  It is to be expected that
many youngsters would turn to what they perceived as the 'adversary' of
Christianity - albeit an 'adversary' of the Christians' own formulation, as
a means of rebellion.
        Since heavy metal, with its pseudo-satanism, is the only form of
'Satanism' which is readily assessable to most young folk, it is
understandable that the rebellious and the alienated, the bored and the
discontented should glean their 'Satanism' from these high-profile,
mass-marketed groups, although none of them are genuine adherents of
Satanism, as Arthur Lyons has pointed out in his book Satan Wants You.
        In reality, what is being propagated by heavy metal, and solely for
profit, is the antithesis of Satanism.  In a way the negative values being
instilled in youth are more akin to the teachings Jesus than of Satan:
"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon the earth; take no thought for
your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your
body, what ye shall put on; If any man come to me, and hate not his father
and mother, and wife and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his
own life also, he cannot be my disciple."
        Are not these anti-life, nihilistic teachings, akin, at least in
attitude, to the negativity and irresponsibility being propounded by heavy
metal and other modes of expression, from which youth are gleaning their
erroneous conception of 'Satanism'?  And why is it that they are swallowing
such concepts as 'Satanic'?  The answer is simply because the Christians
have been defining Satanism since at least the time of Kramer and Sprenger.
The Christians have thus formulated their own brand of Satanism, which is
the type being propounded by heavy metal, and adopted by alienated and
disillusioned youth.  It is the type of 'Satanism', ironically, that stands
parallel to the Sermon on the Mount and other teachings of the demented
Nazarene, as quoted above:  an anti-social disregard for family loyalties,
responsibilities, personal appearance and thought for the future.  This is
precisely the road which many young people have been travelling, 'giving no
thought for the morrow', as Jesus would have it.
        The result is the dishevelled and unhealthy appearance and
nihilistic outlook of so many youngsters, but it has nothing to do with
true Satanism.

SATANIC MORALITY

        This subheading may seem a self-contradiction, since the popular
image of Satanism is that of anti-morality, or amorality.  However, doesn't
genuine Satanism teach the 'ego as godhood', the Satanist as 'the highest
embodiment of human life', as Dr LaVey puts it; Nietzsche's 'Higher Man'?
Specifically, the Satanic ritual, Das Tierdrama, declares:  'Man is God;God
is Man' (1).
        Turning to the Christians' own scripture we find confirmation of
the godhood of man as the fundamental premise of Satanism:  "ye shall be as
gods" was Satan's promise to mankind, according to the Genesis legend, for
which mankind was divided from it slavemaster Jehovah, since he feared that
'the man is become as one of us', i.e.  godlike (2).
        Since the cardinal point of Satanism is the godhood of man, or more
precisely, the potential godhood towards which the outstanding individual
strives above the mass - to 'go beyond himself' in a Nietzschean sense -
this implies a strong moral outlook, which we may better term a 'morality
of the strong.'
        The first of the Nine Satanic Statements declares:  "Satan
represents indulgence, instead of abstinence!" This must surely mean
indulgence of the instinctive primary and physiological drives, and
stimulus motives, which include hunger, thirst, sex, sleep, and avoidance
of pain, in the first category; the need for stimulation, activity,
exploration, curiosity, and contact, in the second.
        Repression of these drives and motives (many of which are call
'sins' by Christianity) lead to aberrant psycho-social behaviour, examples
within the Church being monkish self-flagellation, mass hysteria in
convents, and the molestation of altar boys by priests which, according to
recent reports, has reached epidemic proportions in the USA alone (3).
        The eighth Satanic Statement of Dr LaVey:  "Satan represents all of
the so-called sins, as they all lead to physical, mental, or emotional
gratification!", is in accord with the verdict of psychology and other
sciences, both social and biological.
        The gratification of the primary drives and stimulus motives, as
advocated by Satanism, does not however mean a lack of self-control and
will, and the pandering of every whim and weakness.
        Addiction to, or excessive use of, tobacco, alcohol or drugs is not
satisfaction of the primary drives and stimulus motives which lead to
health, but a means of self-abuse, self-dissipation, and self-destruction,
and therefore a contradiction of natural law, an undermining of the will,
and the emotional and physical strength of the individual striving towards
godhood, which is predicted upon will-power, self-discipline and physical
well-being, but on a more basic level, a negation of the instinct of
survival, innate in every organism.
        Thus, many of the youth in the Western world today, and especially
those self-styled 'Satanist' followers of heavy metal, are dissipated
through drugs, alcohol and tobacco, dishevelled in appearance, dull-eyed
and stooped.  They give 'no thought for the morrow' as the demented
Nazarene recommended, nor care much for their 'raiment'; they 'toil not,
neither do they spin', i.e., they are not creators.
        They are a far cry from Dr LaVey's vision of the Satanist, 'with
the sinews of Satan moving in his flesh', standing proudly and manipulating
the 'folly-ridden masses [they are part of the folly-ridden masses!]
through his own Satanic might, until the day when he may come forth in
splendour proclaiming 'I am a Satanist!  Bow down for I am the highest
embodiment of human life!' (4).
        Somehow this vision does not conjure up an image of the misguided,
youthful pseudo-Satanists, lacking pride, strength, 'splendour',
Will-power, self-discipline; drunk or stoned, and intoxicated equally also
by repetitive noise:  zombie-like.  These misguided 'Satanists' are living
contradictions of all that which is truly Satanic, namely:

(1) The PRIDE of Lucifer, a pride which will not allow for conformity and
conditioning by mass-tastes and trends, and the lowering of personal
standards of conduct and bearing.

(2) An unquenchable thirst for WISDOM, the 'stimulus motive' which was
bestowed to mankind, promethean-style, by Satan himself, according to the
Genesis myth; exemplified in the legend of Dr Faustus.

(3) The INDIVIDUALITY of Satan, the great Adversary, who would not bow down
before any tyrant, including Jehovah himself.

        Pride, Wisdom, Individuality, are three basics upon which a
'Satanic morality' can be constructed, a life-affirming morality which
confronts the values of the present day, with their trivilization of life,
mass-tastes, herd-conformity.  A Satanic morality which demands of the
individual strength of body, mind and will, those very qualities which had
in Ages past been necessary for sheer survival and the ascent of the
species, the qualities which should today make the Satanist 'the highest
embodiment of human life'.

REFERENCES

1.  LaVey, The Satanic Rituals, pp.  103-104.

2.  Gen.  2-3.

3.  Scorpius, The Bible Reconsidered, ch.  The Legacy.

4.  LaVey, The Satanic Bible, p.45.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BOOK REVIEW:
SOCIAL REALISM & THE SECOND COMING
by Rev.  Yaj Nomolos.  (Church of S.A.T.A.N.  PO Box 666, Whitehall, PA
18052, USA) $9.95
        The author, a Vietnam vet., businessman, and founder of the Church
of S.A.T.A.N., provides a detailed account of his unusual concept of
Satanism, which he terms Social Realism.
        S.A.T.A.N.  signifies Survival And The Androgyne Nation, expressing
Nomolos' doctrine.
        "Satanism is a predator's doctrine, a doctrine to inspire the
strong and cut the heart out of the weak," he writes.  This no Satanist
would dispute.  Where he differs from other movements of the Left-Hand Path
is in his vision of the future.  Nomolos predicts that the Earth will soon
undergo a cataclysm which will see the extinction of the species Homo
Sapiens.  Those who survive, the 'Chosen Ones', will evolve a new species,
by a conscious act of mutation, caused by the mind acting on the
neuro-chemical system.  The new species will be the Androgyne, combining
both male and female into a single biological entity.
        The adherents of Social Realism have the task of preparing the way
for the Androgyne.
        Nomolos blasts the present destructive mode of civilisation (what
he terms the Necrophilic Phallocratic, Patriarchal Process) which comprises
the "Unholy Triad" of Religion, Government and business, for its violation
of nature and death-wish towards the Earth.
        Social Realists aim to stand aside from the present system and
weather the coming destruction, to survive and herald the new species.
Describing Social Realism (in common with satanism generally) as a doctrine
of nature, natural evolution [and] natural selection, Nomolos' rationale
for the evolution of the new species remains the same, and old species,
once extinct, never reappear.  "If the environment is going to do another
flip-flop, then we've got to get ready to do a flip-flop too", with a more
adaptable mutation of the human kind, argues Nomolos.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 SATANISM!
                                INTERESTED?
                              The Black Flame
                   A quarterly Forum for Satanic Thought

                 Are you one of those refined and erudite
                 individuals whose lives and thoughts were
                  touched by The Satanic Bible and other
                     writings by Anton Szandor LaVey?

                     The The Black Flame is for you! 

               Explore the implications and applications of
                          contemporary Satanism.

                              Subscribe Now!
                 $12.00 for four issues ($16.00 overseas);
                    $3.00 single copy ($4.00 overseas).
                 Send checks or money orders in U.S. funds
                     to: Peter Gilmore, P.O. Box 499,
                 Radio City Station, NY, NY, 10101, U.S.A.

                       OPEN WIDE THE GATES OF HELL!

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             CRY OF THE RAVEN
                           Quarterly journal of
                          the Church of the Raven
                        Editor: High Priest Luther.
                       Annual subscription $US 15.00
                        to: The Night Owl, Box 321,
                       Meredosia, Ill.  62665, USA.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 DARK LILY

                       "The Reality of the Left-Hand
                        Path". BCM BOX 3406, London
                       WC1N 3XX England. Two Pounds
                         one issue (overseas air).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SATANIC SUPPLIES...

The 1990-92 edition of The Black House Sourcebook is now available from:
The black House, 7510 Sunset Blvd.  Suite 999, Los Angeles Ca.  900046 USA.
        The Black House is the official resource centre of the Church of
Satan.
        The catalogue includes books dealing with both philosophy and
history of the Church of Satan, records/tapes of Satanic Music, masses,
lectures and interviews, and videos, including those of Kenneth Anger.
Available also (to members only) are ritual tools consecrated by the CS
priesthood.

        The Occult Emporium, 102 Nth.  9th St.  Allentown, Pa.  18102
offers an enormous range of occult books and supplies, including those for
the Satanist.  Their catalogue lists incense and burners, ritual candles,
amulets, Satanic wall plaques, talismans, jewellery, voodoo dolls,
chalices, swords and much else.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              LITERATURE LIST

Essays on Satanism, by Faustus Scorpius.  Covers a range of subjects, from
Old Testament mythology to current political and social questions.  $2.00.

Anti-Christ:  The Bible Reconsidered, by Faustus Scorpius.  A complete
refutation of the Judaeo-Christian creed, using the Bible itself.  $3.00.

The Book of The Law, by Aleister Crowley, The Beast 666.  The bible of
Crowley's religion of Thelema.  $3.00.

Might Is Right, by Ragnar Redbeard (Arthur Desmond).  Excerpts from a book
published in 1896, this is Satanic, Anti-Christ philosophy at its best, and
formed the basis of 'The Book of Satan' in Anton LaVey's The Satanic Bible.
$1.00.

Rites of Satan, a compilation from various sources.  Includes:  The Black
Mass, A Satanic Sex Rite, The Death ritual, A rite of Self-Initiation.
$2.00.

Posters - Sabbath Goat & Black Mass prayer; Aleister Crowley self-portrait
and distinctive phallic signature, measure 12" X 16".  $2.00 each.

Please add $2.00 per item on overseas orders
Please make all cheques & MO's payable to:
"Realist Publications"

---------------------------  ANTI-CHRISTIAN  ---------------------------------
                                by C. H. W.

        I am a heavy duty anti-Christian, and proud of it.
        Too many in the West have chosen to bow down before an alien god.
Judaeo-Christianity has been an unmitigated disaster for our civilisation,
and placed too many of our people in their present predicament, where they
don't know whether they are coming or going, except down the tubes.
        Frankly, I am not able to understand how any man can be a
christian.  I mean, any religion that tells its adherents that if they want
to go to heaven they should castrate themselves, can't be too good for the
health, either physical or mental.
        Now, I am always being accused of making this bit up.  "The bible
doesn't really say that, does it?" You can bet your balls it does.  And
it's not just any old Joe in the bible either, but that demented Nazarene,
who even the Hebrews had the sense to give short shrift to telling strong
men that they had better go castrate themselves if they wanted to ascend to
heaven.  I mean, even I, foul minded that I am, couldn't come up with
something that sordid.
        I am sorry to ruin your day by quoting christian scripture, but in
the Sermon on the Mount the demented Nazarene said:
        "You shall not commit adultery!  But to say to you that whoever
looks at a woman and covets her has already committed adultery with her in
his heart.  If your right eye troubles you, tear it out and cast it away
from you; it is better for you that one of your members should perish than
that your whole body should be cast into hell."
        Nietzche commented in The Anti-Christ that it is not exactly the
eye that is meant.  the eye is no 'member' (Greek melos):  the male sexual
organ is.  Was the Bethlehem born son of a whore then exhorting men to
castrate themselves?
        Origen, who was regarded as the greatest biblical acholar amongst
the early christians (about 185-254CE) was in no doubt:  he castrated
himself in order o achieve sexual 'purity'.  He was presumably influenced
by Matthew 19:12, which is also a direct quote of the demented Nazarene,
that those who would enter the kingdom of heaven should castrate
themselves.
        Now the rules of the game are that the christian is supposed to
castrate himself to demonstrate sexual purity, or whatever.  I have offered
to lend quite a few of them a nice sharp knife with which to ensure
themselves entry to the kingdom of heaven but, would you believe, not one
of them has ever accepted.  (Perhaps it is just as well.  There would be a
hell of a mess on the carpet if one of them was so demented as to
demonstrate his foolish faith in his 'saviour').  I should have to
back-pedal like mad and explain that as a pagan I couldn't have any of that
kind of disgusting christian nonsense going on while I was around.
        Okay, so I admit:  the foregoing is a little heavy.  Even dedicated
pagans and atheists think that I am coming on a bit strong when I trot the
above out, and refuse to believe that Christianity is really that
disgusting.  But it is.  My reference for the above is Religions in Four
Dimensions (Readers Digest Press, NY, 1976) (p.  158) by Walter Kaufman,
Prof.  of Philosophy at Princeton Uni.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IN SATANISM

        This is a complete course in the fundamentals of Satanism, as
expounded by the OLHP.
        The course consists of three parts, based on the Order's texts -
Essays on Satanism, The Bible Reconsidered, and Rites of Satan - which are
provided with the course at no extra cost.
        The course comprises a series of questions requiring brief answers,
plus several essay questions and practical exercises.
        Your papers are sent to the Collegium Satanas when completed, for
assessment, and are returned to you.
        Upon successful completion of the course, and the signing of an
affirmation of Satanic allegiance, a certificate of ordination into the
Satanic Priesthood is awarded.

        The total cost is $30.00.  There are no refunds for failure to
complete or pass the course.

        All cheques and Money Orders are payable to REALIST PUBLICATIONS.


Detach:
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     COLLEGIUM SATANAS ENROLMENT FORM

Understanding the conditions and requirements, as outlined above, I, the
undersigned, hereby apply for enrolment as a student of Collegium Satanas.
        I enclose herewith payment of $30.00.  (Cheques & MO's payable to
"REALIST PUBLICATIONS")
Please print or type:

Name______________________________

Address___________________________

__________________________________

Signed____________________________

Date______________________________

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               NEWS & VIEWS

NEW SECT

        A new christian sect, the Protestant Bible Believers Church,
operating in Tokoroa, has caused some concern among mainstream christians.
        While the latter like to portray christianity with the image of
Jesus meek and mild, loving everyone and ever ready to forgive the sinner -
a kind of liberal social worker - the PBBs are blowing the whistle on the
fraudulence of this image by yelling hellfire and damnation at the good
folk of Tokoroa.
        The PBBs christianity is closer to the original article than the
watered-down version of the mainstream churches.  The bible does indeed
teach eternal torment for unbelievers, for as Jesus states (reportedly):
"He that believeth not shall be damned".  (Mark 16:16).
        The PBBs, in common with other sects, are accused of dividing
youthful converts from their families in order to effectively brainwash
them.  yet this anti-family strategy of the PBBs is more in line with
biblical teachings than the mainstreamers who like to pose as champions of
family values.
        Again, to quote Jesus:  "If any man come to me, and hate not his
father and mother, and wife and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea,
and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple." Luke 14:26).
        As paul stated of the original apostles:  "We are fools for Christ
sake." Truly are the PBBs the modern-day apostles of christ.

BUGGERING UP THE CATHOLIC CHURCH

        The conviction of Father Brown in March of sexually assaulting two
altar boys over an 11 year period is likely to be the tip of the proverbial
iceberg among the clergy in NZ.
        Both historically and IN OUR OWN TIME sexual misconduct has been
rife in the church.
historical background
1.  Pope John XII (937-964), bi-sexual, died after being badly beaten by a
jealous husband.
2.  Pope Benedict IX (1020=1055) turned the Lateran Palace into the site of
lavish homosexual orgies.
3.  Pope Paul II (1417-1471) allegedly died of a heart attack while being
sodomized by one of his favourite boys.
4.  Pope Sixtus IV (1414-1484) took one of his nephews as his lover, making
his a millionaire by plundering the papal treasury.
5.  Pope Julius III (1487-1555) had relations with his bastard son and his
adopted son, and made them cardinals.  Appointed numerous other teenagers
as cardinals and organised homosexual orgies for them.
(Ref.  Brimstone #1, 231 Kennedy Dr.  Box 130, Malden MA 02148, USA).
rife today
        Child sexual abuse is rife among the clergy today.  Church
affiliated pyschiatrists and attorneys in the USA have admitted that
hundreds of priests have molested thousands of children during the last 10
years.  A facility in New Mexico has counselled over 600 paedophiliac
priests.  La.  attny.  Ray Mouton has confirmed that damages paid in civil
suits by aberrant priests have exceeded $50 million.  It is estimated that
within the next decade the church's liability could exceed $1 billion.
(Ref.  Dark Lily).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Watcher is published as a broad-spectrum quarterly for Satanists,
Heathens & Thelemites, by the Order of the Left-Hand Path.  Literary
contributions, art work and advertisements welcome.  Signed articles do not
necessarily carry the endorsement of the editor.  Cheques payable to:
Realist Publications.  Editor Faustus Scorpius.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

                         SUBSCRIBE TO THE WATCHER

Name_____________________________________________

Address_____________________________________________________________________

One Year - NZ:  $4.00; Overseas - Surface:  $5.00; Air:  $10.00

                 Cheques payable to "Realist Publications"

To:  P.O.  Box 38-262, Petone, Wellington, New Zealand

IF A TICK APPEARS IN THE BOX YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS NOW DUE [ ]

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - CUT HERE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Notes:

        The Watcher is brought to you in a slightly altered form on the
computer.  It lacks the pictures and title art of the original and has been
slightly restructured with respect to placement of advertisements and
subscription form.
        These issues of The Watcher are fairly old.  If you are considering
ordering anything from this issue it may be advisable to check out the
latest prices first.

                                 * - * - *

                    Typed in by Graeme Wilson (O.L.H.P.)

If you want more info on any OLHP productions or want more info on
Satanism, contact me via the following computer networks:

        Fidonet:  3:770/505
                  (Southern Vortex BBS, ph: +64 0-3-454-3900, 14.4k modem)
        Usenet:   fenris@otago.ac.nz

Also I may be contacted on other NZ BBS's:

        Alternative Reality: +64 0-3-471-0414
        Southern Lights:     +64 0-3-455-6016
        The Left Hand Path:  +64 0-3-454-5763 (my own BBS)
        Bad Dreams BBS:      +64 0-9-528-3577 (leave message to 'Lucifer')

If you wish to contact me via mail to swap texts, ideas, etc. then write
to:

                              Graeme Wilson
                              129 Scott Street
                              Waverley
                              Dunedin
                              South Island
                              New Zealand

