
Written by Shot

§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§
§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§

Today's topic is that of AOL FEDS,as many people know I believe Wreck1Zeus
aka Wreck2Zeus or as I call him Lamer.But though we know about him we do not 
know about many.If you have been watching the news lately you may have noted
that AOL and the FBI are working together.This is a very disconcerting idea.
If the FBI and AOL are working together we must be much more aware of what 
we do.Contrary to popular belief the FBI can trace anybody anytime they 
chose and they need no warrant or permission.I happen to know as for the
fact that my Uncle works for the FBI.This is not something to be takin 
lightly the FBI do not play.You could spend a whole lot of time in jai; for
what we consider to be "no big deal".Teenagers can be sent to an adult jail
facility and adults will definately be there.No one is gonna get ROR or 
Probation.We will all go to jail.I cannot stress how important this is.I do
not want any of you to go to jail and hope you are all careful.


Another topic here on AOL is that of being ripped off.I have talked about 
this before in previous texts.If you have read them you may hear a little
repitition.Online ripoffs are as common as Lamers in Warez rooms.Which is 
to say it happens a lot more than it should.If it happens at all that is 
more than it should.Anyway there are many legit people on AOL such as KFree
and CardCrew.Many more people are legit,but I do not know people who have
bought from them and so do not think I have the right to list them.I myself 
do not sell and do not want anyone to ask me.I simply tell you all this info
because I like AOL and do not want to see it turn in to a place of 
unorganized crime,I say unorganized because carding is an organized crime.
Carding takes patience and knowledge to do without getting caught.Anyway
I personally think that other cardind room was a bad idea and am yet to 
figure out why we need a new one.


I would also like to discuss the topic of making a room selling so that all
of the Lamers who have never carded a thing in their lives will stop coming 
in to "Our Room".Why don't we have all the people who buy go to a room like
selling or buying?They tend to come in and annoy the hell out of everyone.
The only thing I can't stand more than an AOL FED is a LAMER.Lamers ruin 
everyones AOL experience and is the reason many people only use their 10
free hours and then quit.

And my last topic is scrolling.Scrolling is a long time toy used by LAMERS.
Scrolling has been old for a very long time.No one wants to see it so if 
you like to scroll do it in a room by yourself or pay a visit to the New 
Member Lounge!!These are the only topics bugging me at this time so you all
will not have another text from me till something else comes up.

Wreck1Zeus now has a new name that I did not know about at the time I wrote
this text.His new name is Zeus EreEt.Watch him carefully.

§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§ 
§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§§ 