[>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>]
[                                     ]
[             Head Honcho             ]
[               presents              ]
[                  ..                 ]
[       :::: Tits for Free ::::       ]
[                                     ]
[<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<]
 
 
             I want my MTV
           Money for nothing
                  and
           The tits for free
           =================
 
  Sure,everyone can get tits.Just go
down to Rush Street and look for some
hookers and for only $200 you can
fuck your brains out for one hour,but
if you just want tits and you're kinda
short on cash,read on...
 
 
              High School
             *************
 
  Almost everyone who has a modem is in
high school and you go there almost
everyday so why not have some fun while
you're there. Whenever you get the
craving for some nice round soft tits
you virtually surrouded by them all over
school.
  One way is when you're walking in
between those door frames.
 
              ===========
              !    !    !
              !    !    !
              !    !    !
              !    !    !
 
            ^^ Like this ^^
 
  Well when you see a real good looking
girl coming down the hallway with some
nice tits walk through the same way
she goes and it'll get crowded so you'll
both have to turn sideways and when she
does her tits will be against your
chest.Step forward for an ever better
feel. Oh what a feeling!
 
 
                 Crowds
                ********
 
  When you're in a large crowd such as
at a concert or maybea fair at your
local high school you can find lots of
tits. Look for some great looking girl
in the middle and walk through the crowd
pretending to get to the front.While
you're doing it go past her and try to
sqeeze in between her tits and the
person next to her. If you can try to
get your face in her tits.
 
 
               Tall Girls
              ************
 
  Look for some tall girls with big tits
wherever you can find them.In large
groups if possible. Try to walk right
next to them and if you're luck you'll
get your face right in her tits since
she's so tall.
 
 
                Pushing
               *********
 
  Get a friend to help you for this one.
Look for a girl you'd like to get your
hands on. Walk by her with your arms
against your chests like...
 
            \\\\!    !////
             ! !      !  !
             ! !      !  !
             ! !      !  !
 
so your palms are facing outward from
you.Tell your friend to push you into
her and while you bump into her feel her
tits with your hands.Not too long or she
might get suspicious.
 
 
                Hookers
               *********
 
  Ask them for 'samples' of their
bodies and start feeling them all over.
Be careful no pimp is around or you
could find yourself in big trouble or
out of a lot of money.Go for little
girls like 14 yr olds cause they usually
can't do shit about it.
 
                Looking
               *********
 
 Ok some people are chicken shit so they
won't do that kind of stuff.Well if
you're that kinda person try looking,or
if you're just curious how big the new
students tits are or something,take a
look.
  Try to get a seat in the classroom
right behind her.Look at her ass if you
want but it's better to go for the
tits.Stand up slowly and while you're
doing it look down her shirt.Go to the
garbage can or ask the teacher for help
or maybe the pencil sharpener so you can
keep doing it each time without her
getting suspicious.
  If you get friendly with her try
tickling her as if you're just teasing
and maybe you'll 'accidently' feel her
tits.
  A seat behind her on the bus would be
great for watching. If you have a
backpack or a bag put it on the seat and
sit on it so you can get a higher view
and you can look right down her shirt.If
she has a bowtie or something offer to
tie it or maybe say you want to learn
how to tie a bowtie.While you're
reaching over to fix it just keep
looking down her shirt while you're
doing it.
 
 
              Peeping Tom
             *************
 
  Got a nice looking next-door neighbor?
Get your binoculars out and look at her
bedroom window.Good hours to look are
around 9:00-10:00pm,depending on her
bedtime. Also in the morning when she
is dressing.Try getting your movie or
vcr camera and direct it toward the
'target area'.Leave it on for a few
hours or so.If possible look through
the bathroom window also.Bribe her
if possible.Threaten her anonymously by
calling and telling her to remove her
clothes or be hurt.
 
              Locker Rooms
             **************
 
  Yes,an old trick.Try to hide in towel
bins or closets. Staying in the bathroom
of the locker is good.While they think
some other girl is in there taking a
shit or changing her tampon take a peek
at all the curvaceous nude bodies
occupying the locker room. If you look
like a little kid go in the women's
locker room at the local YMCA or
something. Wait near the door during
games so while they're coming out just
take a peek inside. Enter any adjoining
rooms such as gym offices and
'accidently' open the door connecting
the two rooms as if you didn't know.
 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 
