SECRET MISSION
--------------

Note: This game also depends of some random elements, so on one place in the
      game it is not possible to give exact step by step solution. However, I
      tried to formalize the solution as much as possible.

(You start in breefing room) START RECORDER (you will be informed what is your
mission), TAKE RECORDER, W, S, SIT (on the chair; you will see 4 control
buttons), PRESS RED, PRESS WHITE (a photo of you stamped 'visitor' will fall
on the floor), STAND UP, TAKE PICTURE, N, WAIT (until you hear a dull thud).
Now search arround using a map until you find a dead saboteur. You can find
him in the grey room or in the yellow room, the exact location is random. TAKE
SABOTEUR, FRISK SABOTEUR (you will find a lot of useless objects, but a
picture stamped 'window maintance' is useful), TAKE PICTURE. Now return to the
long sloping corridor. U, N, SHOW PICTURE (to go through white door you need a
picture stamped 'visitor'), BREAK WINDOW, WITH RECORDER (after this, the
camera will start scanning window area, and if you don't undertake something,
you will be killed very soon), SHOW PICTURE (marked 'window maintance'; this
is picture of a saboteur, so you must carry him for successful authorization;
after this, a scanning will be stoped), GO WINDOW, TAKE KEY, GO WINDOW, PRESS
WHITE (to open the door), S, D, S, SIT, PRESS WHITE (to temporary stop the
bomb), UNLOCK YELLOW (yellow button is locked), PRESS YELLOW, PRESS RED, PRESS
WHITE (a photo of you stamped 'maintance' will fall on the floor), STAND UP,
TAKE PICTURE, N, D, N, SHOW PICTURE (stamped 'maintance'), W, TAKE MOP, FRISK
MOP (a blue key will fall from it), DROP MOP, TAKE KEY, DROP SABOTEUR, TAKE
CUTTERS, E, PRESS YELLOW (to open the door), S, U, S, SIT, UNLOCK BLUE (blue
button is locked), PRESS BLUE, PRESS RED, PRESS WHITE (a photo of you stamped
'security' will fall on the floor), STAND UP, DROP KEY, TAKE PICTURE, N, W,
DROP KEY, TAKE PAIL, E, N, N, SHOW PICTURE (stamped 'security'), U, LOOK
WINDOW (not necessary, but it will give to you a hint how to pass through a
jammed door), D, W, TAKE WATER (with a pail), E, KICK DOOR (yes, it will open
it), GO DOOR, E, DROP PAIL, W, GO DOOR, W, TAKE SUIT, WEAR SUIT (a protection
against the radiation), E, GO DOOR, D (you must not enter here without a
anti-rad suit, or with a pail, because the radiation will destroy the plastic
pail), CUT WIRE (to release a bomb), TAKE BOMB, U, E (this is the only
location where the bomb may be deactivated without danger), DROP CUTTERS, TAKE
PAIL, POUR WATER AT BOMB (the end - you solved the "impossible").

Note: Usage of the buttons in the game seems strange on a first looking, but
      you will discover exact meaning of each button very easy during playing
      the game, and you will see a corelation between button colours and
      colours of other objects in the game. Also, you can find a movie
      cartridge in the control room. If you take it, and insert it into empty
      movie projector in the projectionist room, you can start the movie by
      pressing green key in the white visitors room. If you do it, from a
      movie you can learn some hints about accessing the reactor. But, this is
      not very important, you can discover these hints anyway, if you try to
      access the reactor wrongly (but you will be killed, or your important
      objects will be distroyed).

Solution by Zeljko Juric
