
Lt. Col. James Bo Gritz (ret.)
Verses
Those U.S. Government Officials Whose Golden
Triangle Heroin Trafficking Has Prevented the
Return of Our POWs From Southeast Asia



I am going to assume that you are acquainted with the seriousness of the
matter presented herein.  On a WHITE HOUSE sanctioned mission to Burma for the
rescue of American Missing In Action I learned of a major heroin smuggling
opperation involving past and present U.S. government officials which has
obstructed the return of known American MIAs from Laos, Cambodia and Viet Nam.
I reported this to the WHITE HOUSE and all appropriate congressional
committees.  I am now taking to the public the information these government
officials refuse to act upon.

(The Overview File is not ready at this time.  My letter to George Bush and
Khun Sa's letter to the Justice Department may serve to introduce this subject
until Overview is finished.)

February 1988
Sandy Valley, NV

Honorable George Bush
Vice President
United States of America
Washington, D.C.

Sir:

AWhy does it seem that you are saying "YES" to illegal narcotics in America?

I turned over video tapes to your NSC staff assistant, Tom Harvey, January
1987, wherein General KHUN SA, overlord of Asia's "Golden Triangle", offered
to stop 900 tons of heroin/opium from entering the free world in 1987.  Harvey
told me, "...there is no interest here in doing that." General Khun Sa also
offered to identify U.S. Government officials who, he says, have been
trafficking in heroin for more than 20 years.

November 1986, Scott Weekly and I went into Burma in coordination and 
cooperation with The White House.  Tom Harvey told me you received a letter 
from Arthur Suchesk, Orange County, CA, dated 29 August 1986.  Dr. Suchesk 
said that Gen Khun Sa had access to U.S. POWs.  Harvey said the letter had 
received "highest attention".  He gave me a copy along with other case 
documents.  I was asked if it was possible to verify the information.  
According to Harvey, the CIA said Khun Sa had been assassinated some months 
before.  Harvey supplied Scott and myself with language under White House and 
NSC letterhead that would help us gain access to Khun Sa.  It worked.  
Unfortunately, Khun Sa knew nothing about US POWs.  He did, however, offer to 
trade his nation's poppy dependence for a legitimate economy.

Instead of receiving an "Atta Boy" for bringing back video tape showing Khun
Sa`s offer to stop 900 tons of illegal narcotics and expose dirty USG
officials, Scott was jailed and I was threatened.  I was told that if I didn't
"erase and forget" all that we had discovered, I would, ~hurt the government".
Further, I was promised a prison sentence of "15 years".

I returned to Burma with two other American witnesses, Lance Trimmer, a
private detective from San Francisco, and Barry Flynn from Boston.  Gen Khun
Sa identified some of those in government service he says were dealing in
heroin and arms sales.  We video taped this second interview and I turned
copies over in June 1987, to the Chairman of the Select Committee on
Intelligence; Chairman of the House on Foreign Affairs Task Force on Narcotics
Control; Co)Chairman, Senate Narcotics Committee; Senator Harry Reid, NV;
Representative James Bilbray, NV; and other Congressional members.  Mister
Richard Armitage, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security
Affairs, is one of those USG officials implicated by Khun Sa.  Nothing was
done with this evidence that indicated that anyone of authority, including
yourself, had intended to do anything more than protect Mr. Armitage.  I was
charged with "Mis)use of Passport".  Seems that it is alright for Oliver north
and Robert MacFarlane to go into Iran on Irish Passports to negotiate an
illegal arms deal that neither you nor anyone else admits condoning, but I
can't use a passport that brings back drug information against your friends.

Lance Trimmer and I submitted a "Citizen Complaint of Wrongdoing by Federal
Officers" to Attorney General Edwin Meese, III on 17 September 1987.
Continuous private and Legislative inquiries to date indicate that the
Attorney General's Office has "lost" the document.  Congressional requests to
the Government Accounting Office have resulted in additional government snares
and stalls.

January 20, 1988, I talked before your Breakfast Club in Houston, Texas.  A
distinguished group of approximately 125 associates of yours, including the
Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme Court, expressed assurance that you are a
righteous man.  Almost all of them raised their hand when I asked how many of
them know you personally.  If you are a man with good intent, I pray you will
do more than respond to this letter.  I ask that you seriously look into the
possibility that political appointees close to you are guilty of by)passing
our Constitutional process, and for purposes of promoting illegal covert
operations, conspired in the trafficking of narcotics and arms.

Please answer why a respected American Citizen like Mister H. Ross Perot can 
bring you a pile of evidence of wrongdoing by Armitage and others, and you, 
according to TIME magazine (May 4, page 18), not only offer him no support, 
but have your Secretary of Defense, Frank Carlucci tell Mr. Perot to "stop 
pursuing Mr.  Armitage".  Why Sir, will you not look into affidavits gathered 
by The Christic Institute (Washington, D.C.), which testify that Armitage not 
only trafficked in heroin, but did so under the guise of an officer charged 
with bringing home our POWs.  If the charges are true, Armitage, who is still 
responsible for POW recovery as your Assistant Secretary of Defense ISA, has
every reason not to want these heros returned to us alive.  Clearly, follow)on
investigations would illuminate the collective crimes of Armitage and others.

Several years ago a secretary working for Armitage asked me "Why would he have
us expunge his official record of all reference to past POW/MIA assignments
and activities?" Not knowing, I ventured a guess that maybe he was considering
running for public office and didn't feel the POW ) Vietnam association would
be a plus in his resume.  It was about the same time a CIA agent named by Khun
Sa turned up dead in Bangkok under "mysterious circumstances".  Also about
this time, as an agent of NSC's Intelligence Support Activity, I was told by
ISA Chief Jerry King, "...there are still too many bureaucrats in Washington
who don't want to see POWs returned alive".  I failed to realize the fullness
of his meaning, or these other events, until in May 1987, Gen Khun Sa, in his
jungle headquarters, named Richard Armitage as a key connection in a ring of
heroin trafficking mobsters and USG officials.  A U.S. agent I have known for
many years stopped by my home last month enroute to his next overseas
assignment.  He remarked that he had worked for those CIA chiefs named by Khun
Sa, and that by his own personal knowledge, he knew what Khun Sa said was
true.  He was surprised it had taken so long to surface.

I am a registered Republican.  I voted for you twice.  I will not do so again.
If you have any love or loyalty in your heart for this nation; if you have not
completely sold out, then do something positive to determine the truth of
these most serious allegations.  You were Director of the CIA in 1975, during
a time Khun Sa says Armitage and CIA officials were trafficking in heroin.  As
Director of Intelligence you were responsible to the American people for the
activities of your assistant ) even as you should know what some of these same
people are doing who are close to you now as our Vice President because i feel
these "parallel government" types will only be promoted by you, giving them
more reason to bury our POWs.

I am enclosing some documentation that supports the charges made.  Chief is a 
letter from Khun Sa to the U.S. Justice Department dated 28 June 1987, wherein 
Richard Armitage is named along with Theodore Shackley (your former Deputy 
Director CIA fro Covert Operations) and others.  Please also note William 
Stevenson's article, "Bank of Intrigue ) Circles of Power".  You, Armitage, 
and General Richard Secord are prominently mentioned.  Stevenson, you might 
remember, authored A MAN CALLED INTREPID.  Also Tom Fitzpatrick's article, 
"From Burma to Bush, a Heroin Highway", should interest you.  Both of these 
men are prize winning journalists.  The book, CRIMES of PATRIOTS, "A True Tale
of Dope, Dirty Money, and the CIA", by Jonathan Kwitny, reporter for the Wall
Street Journal, details for you the bank connections that Khun Sa mentions.
Finally, the basic primer that spells out exactly how this dope for covert
operations gambit began, is Alfred McCoy's THE POLITICS OF HEROIN IN SOUTHEAST
ASIA.  All of these should be required reading for the man appointed chief cop
by our President to safeguard America from illegal narcotics.  These are just
a sampling of many works now available that chronical disgraceful conduct by
those sworn to protect and defend our Constitution.

Parting shot Mr. Vice President: On 28 January 1988, General Khun Sa tendered
an offer to turn over to me one metric ton (2,200 pounds) of heroin.  He says
this is a good faith gesture to the American people that he is serious about
stopping all drugs coming from the infamous Golden Triangle.  I you and Nancy
Reagan are really serious about saying "NO" to drugs, why not test Gen Khun
Sa? I challenge you to allow me in the company of agents of your choice to
arrange to receive this token offer worth over $4 billion on the streets of
New York City.  It will represent the largest "legal" seizure of heroin on
record.  You can personally torch it, dump it in the ocean, or turn it into
legal medication; as I understand there is a great shortage of legal opiates
available to our doctors.  I think Gen Khun Sa's offer is most interesting.
If you say "YES" then the ever increasing flow of heroin from Southeast Asia
(600 tons ) '86, 900 tons ) '87, 1200 tons ) '88) may dry up ) not good for
business in the parallel government and super CIA circles Oliver North
mentioned.  If you say "NO" to Khun Sa, you are showing colors not fit for a
man who would be President.

What is your decision? I challenge you to demonstrate exactly where you stand
with respect to big)business)drugs, parallel government, misuse of U.S.
tax)payer dollars in foreign drug suppression programs that don't work, no
interest in dialogue that will stem the flow of illegal narcotics, return of
POWs while they are still alive? I for one am not for a "USA, Inc." with you
or anyone else as Chairman of the Board.

Respecting Your Office,


James "Bo" Gritz

Concerned American
Box 472 HCR)31
Sandy Valley, NV 89019

(702) 723)5266




U.S. Justice Department,
Washington, D.C.  U.S.A.


SUBJECT:A ` AA 8 AA AImportant fact for the Drugs Eradication
Program to be successful.


Sirs:


This letter to the US Justice Department is to make it clear about our deepest 
concern in wishing to help eradicate drugs and for all the American people as 
well as the world to know the truth that for the past (15) year they have been 
misled to look upon us as the main source of all the drug problems.  A A1.  
The refusal of the United State government to accept our "SIX YEARS DRUGS 
ERADICATION PLAN " presented at the Congressional Hearing by Congressman Mr.  
Lester Wolff after his visit to Thailand in April 1977, was really a great 
disappointment for us.  Even after this disappointment, we continued writing 
letters to President Carter and President Reagan forwarding our sincere wish 
to help and participate in eradicating drugs.  We are really surprised and 
doubtful as to "why the US government refuses our participation and help to 
make a success of the drugs eradication program.  Furthermore, "why the world
has been misled to accuse us as the main culprit for all the drug trades....
while in reality, we are most sincere and willing to help solve the drug
problems in South East Asia.  through our own secret investigation, we found
out that some high officials in the US government's drugs control and
enforcement department and with the influence of corrupted persons objected to
our active participation in the drugs eradication program of the US government
so as to be able to retain their profitable self)interest from the
continuation of the drug problems.  Thus, the US government and the American
people as well as the world have been hoodwinked.

During the period (1965 )1975) CIA Chief in Laos, Theodore Shackley was in the 
drug business, having contacts with the Opium Warlord Lor Sing Han and his 
followers.  Santo Trafficante acted as his buying and transporting agent while 
Richard Armitage handled the financial section with the Banks in Australia.  
Even after the Vietnam War ended, when Richard Armitage was being posted to 
the US Embassy in Thailand, his dealings in the drug business continued as 
before.  He was then acting as the US government official concerning with the 
drugs problems in South East Asia.  After 1979, Richard Armitage resigned from 
the US Embassy's posting and set up the "Far East Trading Company" as a front 
for his continuation in the drug trade and to bribe CIA agents in Laos and 
around the world.  Soon After, Daniel Arnold was made to handle the drug
business as well as the transportation of arms sales.  Jerry Daniels then took
over the drug trade from Richard Armitage.  For over 10 years, Armitage
supported his men in Laos and Thailand with the profits from his drug trade
and most of the cash were deposited with the banks in Australia which was to
be used in buying his way for quicker promotions to higher positions.  A
AWithin the month of July, 1980, Thailand's English newspaper "Bangkok Post:
included a news)report that CIA agents were using Australia as a transit)base
for their drug business and the banks in Australia for depositing,
transferring the large sum of money involved.  A AVerifications of the news
report can be made by the US Justice Department with Bangkok Post and in
Australia.  A AOther facts given herewith have been drawn out from our Secret
Reports files so as to present to you of the real facts as to "why the drug
problem is being prolonged till today." A A3.  Finally, we sincerely hope in
the nearest future to be given the opportunity to actively take part in
helping the US government, the Americans and people of the world in
eradicating and uprooting the drug problems.

Yours Respectfully,

Vice Chairman
THAILAND REVEOLUTIONARY COUNCIL








   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       





CITY OF WASHINGTON
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 0


AFFIDAVIT OF DANIEL P. SHEEHAN


      Below, the Plaintiffs' attorney, Daniel P. Sheehan, sets forth for the 
Court in the following Affidavit, the explanation of the evidence presently in 
his possession )) which evidence does, in fact, rise to the level of "probable 
cause" to believe that the Defendants named in this federal civil lawsuit are 
guilty of the commission of the federal criminal violations set forth in the 
Amended Complaint of October 4, 1986.  The Plaintiffs move that this Affidavit 
of Counsel be deemed a Supplemental Filing to their October 4, 1986, Amended 
Complaint if the Court deems this to be legally required and that it be deemed 
by the Court to set forth the evidentiary basis upon which a reasonable person 
)) drawing all logical inferences from the facts adduced in the direction of 
the Plaintiffs )) would conclude that it is more probable than not that each 
of the Defendants named in this civil suit is guilty of violating the Federal 
RICO Statute and that he is civilly liable to the Plaintiffs Tony Avirgan and 
Martha Honey for having fortuitously contributed to the civil wrongs committed 
against them as charged in this Amended Complaint )) as Supplemented by the 
Affidavit of Counsel.


ATTORNEY DANIEL SHEEHAN'S AFFIDAVIT


Now comes Attorney Daniel P. Sheehan, and having been duly sworn hereby swears 
and affirms that the following facts are true:


1.      I am a duly licensed attorney at law, admitted to practice before the 
State and Federal Courts of the State of New York in both the Northern and
Southern Districts of New York.

2.      I am duly licensed and have been admitted to practice before the 
Courts of the District of Columbia, both local and Federal and I am in good
standing before both the Bar of New York and the Bar of the District of
Columbia.

3.      I have practiced law before the courts of New York and numerous other 
states in our nation since 1970, having served as counsel in some 60 separate 
pieces of litigation in the states of New York, Pennsylvania, North Carolina,
Virginia, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Florida, Oklahoma, Ohio,
Colorado, Idaho, Nebraska, South Dakota, Wyoming and Mississippi.

4.      I graduated from Harvard college in 1967 as an Honors Graduate in 
American Government, writing my Honors Thesis in the field of Constitutional 
Law, and was the Harvard University nominee for the Rhodes Scholarship from 
New York in 1967.  I graduated from Harvard School of Law in 1970, having
served as an Editor of the Harvard Civil Rights)Civil Liberties Law Review and
as the Research Associate of Professor Jerome Cohen, the Chair of the
International Law Department of Harvard.

5.      While at Harvard School of Law, I served as a summer associate at the 
State Street law firm of Goodwin, Proctor and Hoar under the supervision of 
Senior Partner, Donald J. Hurley, the President of the Boston Chamber of 
Commerce and Massachusetts Senatorial Campaign Chairman for John F. Kennedy.  
At this firm I participated in the case of BAIRD v EISENSTAT, under Roger 
Stockey, General Counsel for the Massachusetts Planned Parenthood League 
(establishing the unconstitutionality of the Massachusetts anti)birth control 
law) and in the Nevada case, under Charles Goodhue, III (establishing the 
constitutional right to bail in criminal extradition cases, including capital 
cases).  While at Harvard School of Law, I authored "The Pedestrian Sources of 
Civil Liberties" in the Harvard Civil Rights)Civil Liberties Law Review and I 
served under Professor Milton Katz, the President of the International Law 
Association, as the Chairman of the Nigerian Biafran Relief Commission 
responsible for successfully negotiating the admission of mercy flights of 
food into Biafra in 1968.

6.      While serving as a legal Associate at the Wall Street law firm of 
Cahill, Gordon, Sonnett, Rheindle and Ohio under partner Theodore Shackley and 
Thomas Clines directed the Phoenix Project in Vietnam, in 1974 and 1975, which 
carried out the secret mission of assassinating members of the economic and 
political bureaucracy inside Vietnam to cripple the ability of that nation to 
function after the total US withdrawal from Vietnam.  This Phoenix Project, 
during its history, carried out the political assassination, in Vietnam, of 
some 60,000 village mayors, treasurers, school teachers and other non)Viet 
Cong administrators.  Theodore Shackley and Thomas Clines financed a highly 
intensified phase of the Phoenix project, in 1974 and 1975, by causing an 
intense flow of Vang Pao opium money to be secretly brought into Vietnam for 
this purpose.  This Vang Pao opium money was administered for Theodore 
Shackley and Thomas Clines by a US Navy official based in Saigon's US office 
of Naval Operations by the name of Richard Armitage.  However, because 
Theodore Shackley, Thomas Clines and Richard Armitage knew that their secret 
anti)communist extermination program was going to be shut down in Vietnam, 
Laos, Cambodia, and Thailand in the very near future, they, in 1973, began a 
highly secret non)CIA authorized program Thus, from late 1973 until April of 
1975, Theodore Shackley, Thomas Clines and Richard Armitage disbursed, from 
the secret, Laotian)based, Vang Pao opium fund, vastly more money than was 
required to finance even the highly intensified Phoenix Project in Vietnam.  
The money in excess of that used in Vietnam was secretly smuggled out of 
Vietnam in large suitcases, by Richard Secord and Thomas Clines )) and carried 
into Australia, where it was deposited in a secret, personal bank account 
(privately accessible to Theodore Shackley, Thomas Clines and Richard Secord).  
During this same period of time between 1973 and 1975, Theodore Shackley and 
Thomas Clines caused thousands of tons of US weapons, ammunition, and 
explosives to be secretly taken from Vietnam and stored at a secret "cache" 
hidden inside Thailand.

The "liaison officer" to Shackley and Clines and the Phoenix Project in 
Vietnam, during this 1973 to 1975 period, from the "40 Committee" in the Nixom 
White House was one Eric Von Arbod )) an Assistant Secretary of State for Far 
Eastern Affairs.  Von Arbod shared his information about the Phoenix Project
directly with his supervisor Henry Kissinger.

Saigon fell to the Vietnamese in April of 1975.  The Vietnam War was over.

Immediately upon the conclusion of the evacuation of U.S. personnel from 
Vietnam, Richard Armitage was dispatched, by Theodore Shackley and Thomas 
Clines, from Vietnam to Tehran, Iran.  In Iran, Armitage (the "bursar" for the 
Vang Pao opium money for Shackley and Clines' planned "Secret Team" covert 
operations program), between May and August of 1975, set up a secret 
"financial conduit" inside Iran, into which secret Vang Pao drug funds could 
be deposited from Southeast Asia.  The purpose of this conduit was to serve as 
the vehicle for secret funding by Shackley's "Secret Team," of a private, 
non)CIA authorized "Black" operations inside Iran )) disposed to seek out, 
identify, and assassinate socialist and communist sympathizers )) who were 
viewed by Shackley and his "Secret Team" members to be "potential terrorists" 
against the Shah of Iran`s government in Iran.  In late 1975 and early 1976, 
Theodore Shackley and Thomas Clines retained Edwin Wilson to travel to Tehran, 
Iran to head up the "Secret Team" covert "anti)terrorist" assassination 
program in Iran.  This was not a U.S.  government)authorized operation.  This 
was a private operations supervised, directed and participated in by Shackley, 
Clines, Secord and Armitage in their purely private capacities.

At the end of 1975, Richard Armitage took the post of a "Special Consultant" 
to the U.S. Department of Defense regarding American military personnel 
Missing In Action (MIAs) in Southeast Asia.  In this capacity, Armitage was 
posted in the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand.  There Armitage had top 
responsibility for locating and retrieving American MIA's in Southeast Asia.  
He worked at the Embassy with an associate, one Jerry O. Daniels.  From 1975 
to 1977, Armitage held this post in Thailand.  However, he did not perform the 
duties of this office.  Instead, Armitage continued to function as the 
"bursar" for Theodore Shackley's "Secret Team," seeing to it that secret Vang 
Pao opium funds were conducted from Laos, through Armitage in Thailand to both 
Tehran and the secret Shackley bank account in Australia at the Nugen)Hand 
Bank.  The monies conducted by Armitage to Tehran were to fund Edwin Wilson's 
secret anti)terrorist "seek and destroy" operation on behalf of Theodore 
Shackely.  Armitage also devoted a portion of his time between 1975 and 1977, 
in Bangkok, facilitating the escape from Laos, Cambodia and Thailand and the 
re)location elsewhere in the world, of numbers of the secret Meo tribesmen 
group which had carried out the covert political assassination program for 
Theodore Shackley in Southeast Asia between 1966 and 1975.  Assisting Richard 
Armitage in this operation was Jerry O. Daniels.  Indeed, Jerry O. Daniels was 
a "bag)man" for Richard Armitage, assisting Armitage by physically 
transporting out of Thailand millions of dollars of Vang Pao's secret opium 
money )) to finance the re)location of Theodore Shackley's Meo tribesmen and 
to supply funds to Theodore Shackley's "Secret Team" operations.  At the U.S. 
Embassy in Bangkok, Richard Armitage also supervised the removal of arms, 
ammunition and explosives from the secret Shackley)Clines cache of munitions 
hidden inside Thailand between 1973 and 1975 )) for use by Shackley's "Secret 
Team".  Assisting Armitage in this latter operations was one Daniel Arnold, 
the CIA Chief of Station in Thailand )) who joined Shackley's "Secret Team" )) 
in his purely private capacity.

One of the officers in the U.S. Embassy in Thailand, one Abranowitz came to 
know of Armitage's involvement in the secret handling of Vang Pao opium funds 
and caused to be initiated an internal State Department heroin smuggling 
investigations directed against Richard Armitage.  Armitage was the target of 
Embassy personnel complaints to the effect that he was utterly failing to 
perform his duties on behalf of American MIAs, and he reluctantly resigned as
the D.O.D. Special Consultant on MIA's at the end of 1977.

From 1977 until 1979, Armitage remained in Bangkok opening and operating a 
business named The Far East Trading Company.  This company had offices only in 
Bangkok and in Washington, D.C.  This company was, in fact, from 1977 to 1979, 
merely a "front" for Armitage's secret operations conducting Vang Pao opium 
money out of Southeast Asia to Tehran and the Nugen)Hand Bank in Australia to 
fund the ultra right)wing, private anti)communist "anti)terrorist" 
assassination program and "unconventional warfare" operation of Theodore 
Shackley's and Thomas Cline's "Secret Team".  During this period, between 1975 
and 1979, in Bangkok, Richard Armitage lived in the home of Hynnie Aderholdt 
)) the former Air Wing Commander of Shackley`s "Special Operations Group" in 
Laos )) who, between 1966 and 1968, had served as the immediate superior to 
Richard Secord, the Deputy Air Wing Commander of MAG)SOG.  Secord, in 1975, 
was transferred from Vietnam to Tehran, Iran.

In 1976, Richard Secord moved to Tehran, Iran and became the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary of defense in Iran, in charge of the Middle Eastern Division of the 
Defense Security Assistance Administration.  In this capacity, Secord 
functioned as the chief operations officer for the U.S. Defense Department in 
the Middle East in charge of foreign military sales of U.S. aircraft, weapons 
and military equipment to Middle Eastern nations allied to the U.S..  Secord's 
immediate superior was Eric Van Marbad )) the former 40 Committee liaison 
officer to Theodore Shackley's Phoenix program in Vietnam from 1973 to 1975.

From 1976 to 1979, in Iran, Richard Secord supervised the sale of U.S. 
military aircraft and weapons to Middle Eastern nations.  However, Richard 
Secord did not authorize direct nation)to)nation sales of such equipment 
directly from the U.S. government to said Middle Eastern governments.  
Instead, Richard Secord conducted such sales through a "middle)man", one 
Albert Hakim.  By the use of middle)man Albert Hakim, Deputy Assistant 
Secretary of Defense Richard Secord purchased U.S. military aircraft and 
weapons from the U.S. governament at the low "manufacturer's cost" )) but sold 
these U.S. aircraft and weapons to the client Middle Eastern nations at the 
much higher "replacement cost".  Secord then caused to be paid to the U.S. 
government, out of the actual sale price obtained, only the lower amount equal 
to the lower manufacturer's cost.  The difference, was secreted from the U.S. 
government and Secord and Albert Hakim secretly transferred these millions of 
dollars into Shackley's "Secret Team" operations inside Iran )) and into 
Shackley's secret Nugen)Hand bank account in Australia.  Thus, by 1976, 
Defendant Albert Hakim had become a partner with Thomas Clines, Richard Secord 
and Richard Armitage in Theodore Shackley's "Secret Team".

Between 1976 and 1979, Shackley, Clines, Secord, Hakim, Wilson, and Armitage 
set up several corporations and subsidiaries around the world through which to 
conceal the operations of the "Secret Team".  Many of these corporations were 
set up in Switzerland.  Some of these were: (1) Lake Resources, Inc.; (2) The 
Stanford Technology Trading Group, Inc.; and (3) Companie de Services 
Fiduciaria.  Other companies were set up in Central America, such as: (4) CSF, 
Investments, Ltd. and (5) Udall research Corporation.  Some were set up inside 
the United States by Edwin Wilson.  Some of these were: (6) Orca Supply 
Company in Florida and (7) Consultants International in Washington, D.C..  
Through these corporations, members of Theodore Shackley's "Secret Team" 
laundered hundreds of millions of dollars of secret Vang Pao opium money 
pilfered Foreign Military Sales proceeds between 1976 and 1979.  named in this 
federal civil suit to be placed under oath and asked about their participation 
in the criminal "enterprise" alleged in this Complaint is probative of the 
criminal guilt of the Defendants of some of the crimes charged in this 
Complaint.

Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs' Counsel, The Christic Institute, possess evidence 
constituting "probable cause" that each of the Defendants named in this 
Complaint are guilty of the conduct charged.

If further detailed evidence is required by the Court to allow the Plaintiffs 
to begin the standard process of discovery in this case, the failure to place
it in this Affidavit is the function of the short time allowed by the Court
for the preparation of this filing )) it is not because the Plaintiffs lack
such evidence.




                                             Daniel P. Sheehan


Subscribed and Sworn to before me this day of December, 1986










   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       



James Bo Gritz

U.S. DRUG TRAFFICKING:
BURMA REPORT

My team mate, Mr. Scott Weekly, and I infiltrated Burma in November- December 
1986 in cooperation with the White House to ascertain whether or not heroin 
"king-pin" Khun Sa had access to U.S. Prisoners of War as was reported. 1;e 
found no POWs, but Khun Sa agreed to send patrols throughout western Laos to 
check for POW presence. During our interview with him, he stated he wanted to 
eliminate the 700- 900, tons of opium/heroin that is trafficked through his 
area (the Golden Triangle") each year. He stated that he would also expose
U.S.  Government officials involved in the drug trafficking.  Mr. Weekly and I
returned to the U.S. in December 1986. I submitted the video taped
conversations to the White House, excited about the potential dialogue on drug
suppression. I received a telephone call from my White House liaison, lauding
our successful interview with drug warlord Khun Sa who had previously been
reported killed by the CIA. When asked about the reaction and planned response
to Khun Sa's proposal to eliminate drug flow into the free world I was told,
"There is no interest here in doing that". This seemed most strange, since
Vice-President Bush is appointed as the nations top policeman for drug
control.  Immediately thereafter, my partner (Mr. Weekly) was arrested. He was
told by federal agents and members of the attorney general s office that I was
the true target of an investigation connecting me with White House misdeeds
(i.e., Oliver North etc.). A proffer was made that guaranteed Mr. Weekly
probation without supervision, so that he could join me oVerseas in the
on-going POW liberation effort. Instead of this, Scott Weekly was subsequently
sentenced to 5 years in prison for a technical violation of the law, which act
several federal offices and authorities admitted having sanctioned.
Simultaneously, the U.S. Government criticized Thailand and Burma for failure
to destroy Khun Sa , and declared no mercy . The ambassador for narcotic
control went to Bangkok, Thailand and announced: "The U.S. will never
negotiate with the free world's worst enemy, Khun Sa." For 60 days, newspapers
in Thailand headlined the efforts of tens of thousands of Thai and Burmese
troops deployed against Khun Sa's stronghold.

I returned to Burma to visit Khun Sa in May 1987, and see if he would release 
his information on corrupt and drug dealing U.S. officials.  Instead of 
finding a war zone in his area, I found a new road, built by the Thai 
government - with heavy equipment, leading directly to Khun Sa s Shan State 
headquarters. When questioned about the lack of evidence of any bomb, bullet, 
damage to the heavy-duty truck route, he laughed at the headlines we d seen 
and explained: "It was only a newspaper war." I observed thousands of teak 
trees along the entryway on the Thai side of the border. Obviously, Khun Sa 
had traded teak to the Thais'' for a 'phony' war and high-speed road. The 
Thais and Burmese were praised by the U.S. Government, insuring millions in 
drug suppression funds.

During our eight-day stay, Khun Sa and his staff gave us names of past and
present U.S. officials involved in drug buying and trafficking.

It is unconscionable that American tax payers are funding millions on a
suppression program infected with corrupt officials. Drug traffic has steadily
increased each year. In 1986 it was estimated at 700 tons of opium/heroin.
This year - with the new road - Khun Sa should reach his stated goal of 900
tons. Khun Sa says that for one tenth of the Burmese drug suppression money, 
he will use his 40,000-man army to completely eliminate all opium/heroin 
traffic through the Golden Triangle and Shan territory. His desire is to 
safeguard his 8 million Shan people from the Burmese spraying of "Agent 
Orange" defoliant on Shan State crops, animals and people.  He seeks 
recognition of Shanland through politically-recognized negotiations that would 
have given independence to Shanland from Burma in 1957. The Burmese refuse to 
release this territory, and continue to overtly suppress the population. 
Shanland (160,000 square miles) comprises 40% of the Burma landmass and it is 
estimated that 80% of the Burmese economy comes from the natural resources of 
the Shan States.

The attached tapes and news copies detail this story. Additionally, 8mm sound
movies, stills, video masters and accompanying audio are available.

The bottom line is that Khun Sa has been besieged by corrupt U.S.  ploys, 
Scott Weekly has been railroaded, and I myself have been federally indicted
for use of a false passport. Now that I have been to Burma and learned who in
the U.S. Government Executive Branch have been involved with drug trafficking,
it is easy to understand the frantic efforts to prevent disclosure of this
report.

Lt. Col. James "Bo" Gritz
U.S. Army Special Forces (Ret.











   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       



STATEMENT
by Lt.Col James Bo Gritz, USA (Ret)
for U.S. Congress, House Foreign Affairs Committee,
International Narcotics Control Task Force.
Rayburn House Office Building
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, 30 June 1987

NINE HUNDRED TONS OF HEROIN & OPIUM WILL ENTER THE FREE WORLD FROM SOUTHEAST 
ASIA'S "GOLDEN TRIANGLE" THIS YEAR.  The reason is because U.S. taxpayer
dollars and American equipment have been used to construct a new road that
will allow narcotics to pour out of General Khun Sa's Shan Territories rather
than trickle out by horse and mule as has been the case until the beginning of
this year.

Last year 600 tons of Opiates trafficked from this area.  Press reports 
included as part of this statement argue that it is logistically impossible to
increase the output to 900 toins.  The new road capable of easily handling 10
ton truck convoys signal not only the capability, but the reality.  The
disappointing fact is that this new artery was constructed by the Thai
Government using money, manpower, time and materials furnished by our drug
suppression funds.

Moreover, there are serious implications that elements within the U.S.
Government are Khun Sa's biggest customers.  The facts are that for 15 years
U.S. taxpayers through legislative bodies like this committee and executive
agencies such as have testified here today, have dumped hundres of millions of
dollars into drug suppression programs within Thailand and Burma which have
done nothing but nourish the flow of narcotics from Asia into the United
States.  The proof is statistically clear.  Fifteen years ago the flow of
Opiates was 60 tons; this year it will approach or exceed 900 tons.  The
reasons, while multi)faceted, boil down to one word, "money".

Certain high level Thai and Burmese officials are packing their pockets with 
U.S. supplied drug suppression funds; political pay*offs, and other spin)off
profits like the thousands of Teak trees felled during the Khun Sa road
effort.  Khun Sa has no outlet for teak, but it is a protected and highly
valued commodity in Thailand.  More shameful are the serious allegations
raised by General Khun Sa and his staff that corrupt U.S. officials allow this
travesty and in certain cases are directly involved.

After meeting with General Khun Sa and others, I am convinced that a secret 
combination exists today within the U.S. Government that was officially 
germinated during the Nixon ) Vietnam years and has, through illicit drug 
profits, propagated itself today into a self)serving righteous monster of 
global proportions.  I believe Ed Wilson was a member of this combination and 
that his activities represent only one of many tentacles.  I believe the 
Contra)Iran situation is merely another visible lesion that has emerged 
from this extra)governmental organism.

I say "would be righteous" because those within this secret combination I
believe honestly think they are serving America by offering an established
model of sabotage, subversion, and assassination to areas threatened by
communism.  They are in existence because normal government process is too
cumbersome, time consuming and oft times impotent.  These persons who are
intelligent and well seeded in our governmental structure think they are
smarter than our elected officials and can expedite accomplishment of national
objectives.  They have funded their efforts through drug trafficking because
of a 1960's mind set that anyone who would use opiates is animalistic and the
U.S.A. doesn't really care about them.  They began their drug dealing in
Southeast Asia as a means to fund the secret war in Laos and Cambodia that
Congress was officially unaware of.  Besides my personal experiences, all of
these conclusions are spelled out in the book, THE POLITICS OF HEROIN IN
SOUTHEAST ASIA.

I have good reason to believe that after President Nixon got the U.S. out of
Vietname "with honor", while bringing home "all the POW's" in 1973 that either
with his concurrance, or on the initiative of those "Best and Brightest"
included within the "President's 40", the war continued to be fought through
Project Phoenix.  The insiders knew the North Vietnamese would not abide by
the tri)accord and continue to consolidate their position in Vietnam, Laos,
and Cambodia.  Since the war was over there was no Congressional funding and
home)grown drug trafficking offered the most expedient solution.  Ideally the
communist takeover in 1975 would fall like a house)of)cards since the
infrastructure would be eliminated by extreme prejudice through the Phoenix
operation.  Even so, an estimated 150,000 non)military persons were
terminated, the program failed to meet the expectations of those in charge.

Next, I believe the Phoenix model was moved to help stabilize a toppling Shaw 
who happened to be close to the Administration ) and to people in the secret
combination society, many of whom held high positions within the Executive
Branch.  The Shaw fell.  By this time the model was self)perpetuating.

Rather than shut down after failing in Iran, there was a re*focus on the 
building communist threat in Central America.  The Contra)Iran)Oliver 
North)White House disclosures are only protrusions that have become visible 
because of the extent and intensity of this para)government organization.  
Even as these hearings are underway, representatives of this secret 
combination are at work in the "Philippines, offering "anti)communist 
solutions" to that struggling democracy.  I believe that.

As years and changing administrations have gradually thinned
the society's active duty status within the U.S. Government, I
believe those who still steer the society have become more self*serving, making huge personal profitunder the guise of fighting
worldwide communism.  Further, I believe they are maximizing their\j\influence to protect those of t brotherhood who still hold active
office in the government.

I have been told for years that U.S. POW's would never be allowed to return 
because they were directly related to illegal drug trafficking by U.S. 
officials.  Until May of 1987, I thought this absurd.  Now, after eight years 
in the POW)Southeast Asian arena, I clearly can see what was hidden except to 
those more sensitive to power politics than myself.  The reason we have met 
the enemy and he is U.S. in our efforts to return POWs while they are still 
alive is simple.  When POWs are returned the first demand by the American
people will be to examine those within the government responsible for their
return.  American will want to know why these individuals failed in their
official capactities; why the burden fell on the private sector; and what took
so long if the POW issue is truly "Top National Priority" as designated by
President Reagan.  Upon investigation it will be revealed that responsible
officials were more interested in actuating their secret society than
accounting for our POW and MIA.

The fact is that all of the Heroin and Opiates could be shut off at the Golden
Triangle if America`s responsible elected and appointed officials would do
their job.  General Khun Sa is recognized as the drug king)pin and controls
the Golden Triangle with a well disciplined army of 40,000 Shan soldiers.  He
has stated to me before three other American witnesses on video tape that he
greatly desires to stop the drug trafficking, but we won't let him.  He has
promised that if we will give him any economic alternative, he will not just
stem, but stop the flow of narcotics through his areas of control.  He has
said for example that for one)tenth the money we now give the Burmese for drug
suppression turned into economic aid and crop substitution, he will use his
force to enforce what we cannot and have not.  In addition, Khun Sa has
stipulated that the Burmese must be stopped from using the 12 Bell Helicopters
and fixed wing aircraft given them by the U.S. to spray the Shan State people,
animals, food and water with Agent Orange and herbicides.  All that I have
presented thus far is backed up by written and recorded documents made
available to the Committee.

It has been reported to me by committee personnel that Khun Sa has made these 
offers before.  They say the CIA has expressed doubt and mistrust that Khun Sa 
will carry out his part of the bargain.  I and three other Americans have met 
with Khun Sa.  We all believe him to be sincere.  Certainly in view of the 
dismal failure of the CIA and DEA to slow, stop or even deter the flood of 
drugs from the Golden Triangle, it seems that a change in dynamics is in 
order.  Especially since Khun Sa has directly implicated persons within the 
CIA as some of his best customers.  The video tapes show testimony of a 
frustrated medical doctor who, under orders from Khun Sa, did everything from 
offer radio links to Khun Sa's headquarters to present a horse that might be 
used to alert DEA of drug movements.  The low level agents supported these 
initatives, but in every case they were rejected at DEA headquarter levels.  
\j\

        I have strived at the invitation of the Executive Branch for eight 
years to convince political skeptics that American POWs are alive in the hands 
of Communist forces in Laos and Vietnam.  I abhore drugs and dopes that are 
users, yet in the past two weeks I've been told by committee staff and others 
that "federal sources and a Los Angeles State Department employee have said 
that I am a "drug trafficker", and I will be in prison before July 4th.  I 
know this level of federal employee would never make such slanderous 
statements unless encouraged by higher)ups.  While following the classic model 
of "deny)defame)divert," it is disappointing that law enforcement agencies
would reveal such low life practices as directly as they have, and then avoid
comment when confronted.

I have tried in every way to cooperate with the committee and its membership.  
I've furnished video tapes, only to be informed that the chairman has blocked 
their distribution.  I've supplied the Suchesk letter to Vice President Bush, 
and requested a written transcript of the file from which Khun Sa's secretary
read from.  I received a letter in the mail last week.  It was from Khun Sa.
The stapled and sealed envelope had been opened.  Inside, the pamphlet, which
had also been stapled shut, had been opened and the contents removed.  I had
asked Khun Sa to translate his record; sign it himself with two additional
witnesses.  I was assured this document was part of the opened package.  I
have requested my contacts furnish me with a FAX of their copy.  It serves to
supplement in writing the verbal and video accounts.

I'm disillusioned that this committee which represents the interest of 240 
million Americans in controling illegal drug trafficking, would take such a
negative and skeptical position on such a critical issue as Khun Sa's proposal
and my deliverance of the information he gave us.  I've been told that I must
"sell my case" to you.  Facts are, I am a citizen who has been twice to see a
warlord who is recognized as the world's most powerful Heroin kingpin.  This
person has shown statistically that our 15 year old drug suppression program
is, at best, "dumb" by anyone's standards.  At best we have millions of US tax
dollars being mishandled; one recipient has made use of U.S. assets to build a
major road, and secures that road from outside infiltration; 900 tons of
opiates entering the free world; rampant corruption of allied officials.  At
worst in addition to the best case, we have officials within the USG who
won't, as Khun Sa says, let him get out of the drug business, because they are
his biggest buyers.

Your business is representing American interest in drug control.  You greatly 
influence how our tax dollars are used and how well the enforcement agencies 
do their job.  My business is bringing home POWs while they are still alive.  
Neither one of us has been able to make much head way because I'm convinced 
there are persons within the government that are opposing us both.  If POWs 
came home, the resulting investigation will expose their drug involvement; if 
the drugs are stopped, their source of income dries up.  I agree that 
communism threatens the liberty of free people everywhere, but in my opinion 
drugs are even a bigger and more immediate threat.  To\j\fuel these 
self)righteous freedom fighters with drug money is to steal, cheat, and 
mislead every American taxpayer, and circumnavigate the greatest governmental 
system in the world.  While it may appear slow, and at times fickle and 
indecisive, still our's is the greatest government in the world.  There aren't 
boat loads of Americans headed for the Soviet Union.  I believe our system was 
divinely inspired.  I believe it will work despite any shortcoming.

As a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter)Day Saints with Temple 
Endowments, I raise my hand to the square and swear before God, Angels, and 
you as witnesses, that this statement is the absolute truth as I know it.  I 
hope you can swear before God that you will execute the responsibilities to 
your constituents with all honesty in thoroughly investigating the proposal 
for eliminating all drug trafficking from the Golden Triangle, and seeing to 
the objective investigation and prosecution of any American officials found to 
be guilty of maliciously dealing in drugs.  I personally don't believe the 
Americans named by Khun Sa as conspiritors in traffickings could pass an 
honest security background check.  I believe if you do your job as our 
representative body, you will uncover and topple those members of this secret 
combination like a line of dominos.  If you give this hearing only a cameo 
appearance, the combination will be strengthened and our nation could be in
for a period like the Vietnam era.  Your positive attention to this matter
should also speed the safe return of our POWs.

I believe we can stop the heroin and opium by working with Kuhn Sa instead of 
against him.  At worst we lose 10 percent of the Burmese Socialist State 
suppression funds.  You don't have to be from Las Vegas to recognize Khun Sa's 
offer as a good bet.  I believe in him and that he will keep his word.  We
can't hardly afford not to take the chance.  I believe the American public
would be outraged to discover we by)passed such an opportunity because people
who are suspect as traffickers say they "don't trust Khun Sa." Their line
should be added to other greats such as, "I'm from the government, I'm here to
help you"; and "your check is in the mail."

The body of this statement contains a chronology of events.  I have attached
germain documents that attest to the allegations made in the video tapes.










   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       

THE HONORABlE GEORGE H. BUSH August 29, 1986
VICE)PRESIDENT
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON D.C.

DEAR SIR:

 ON AUGUST 12th 1986 THE UNDERSIGNED PERSONALLY MET WITH KUHN SA AT THE 
VILLAGE OF HO)MONG LOCATED NEAR THE THAI BURMA BORDER.  (REFERENCE: EXHIBIT "
A " ) " CERTIFICATION OF VISIT").  TOPICS COVERED WERE;

1: A PROPOSAL TO ERADICATE OPIUM IN THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE
2: THE CORRUPTION OF THE THAI, BURMA AND D.E.A. OFFICIALS
3: THE AMERICAN M.I.A./ P.O.W.'S IN LAOS
4: THE REGISTRATION OF A TRADE MISSION
5: A HERBAL MEDICAL CUR FOR NARCOTIC ADDICTS.

1: A PROPOSAL TO ERADICATE OPIUM IN THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE.

BACKGROUND:

THE SHAN STATE IN BURMA, (APPROXIMATELY THREE TIMES THE SIZE OF TAIWAN) HAD
BEEN UNDER BRITISH PROTECTION PRIOR TO 1948.  THE SHAN PEOPLE, POPULATION OF 8
MILLION, UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF KHUN SA SIGNED AN AGREEMENT TO UNIFY WITH THE
BURMESE GOVERNMENT IN ORDER TO OBTAIN INDEPENDENCE FROM THE BRITISH.  THE
PINLONG AGREEMENT , REGISTERED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS, CONTAINED A CONTAINED
A CONDITION THAT WOULD ALLOW THE SHAN PEOPLE TO FREELY SECEDE FROM BURMA AFTER
A TEN YEAR PERIOD AND BECOME AN INDEPENDENT STATE.

WHEN GENERAL NE WIN, A SOCIALIST, TOOK OVER BURMA HE ABOLISHED THE PINLONG 
AGREEMENT AND OPENED THE DOOR FOR THE BURMA COMMUNIST PARTY TO GAIN A STRONG
HOLD IN THE COUNTRY.  IT WAS AT THIS TIME THAT SHAN REBELLION FOR INDEPENDENCE
BEGAN.

IN EARLY 1949 THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF BURMA MOVED INTO THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES 
OF THE SHAN STATE AND ESTABLISHED MILITARY STRONGHOLDS WHILE ENGAGING IN THE 
BUSINESS OF; OPIUM CULTIVATION, PROCESSING, TRANSPORTATION AND SALE.  IN 1950
REMNANTS OF CHAING KAI)SHEK'S KMT ARMY MOVED FROM MAINLAND CHINA INTO THE SAME
AREA.  THEY ALSO ESTABLISHED STRONGHOLDS AND FREELY ENGAGED IN THE OPIUM
BUSINESS TO SUPPORT THEIR ARMIES.

tHE SHAN PEOPLE, ON THE VERGE OF STARVATION, FOUND THEMSELVES SURROUNDED AND 
OPPRESSED BY THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF BURMA, THE KMT ARMIES AND A VARIETY OF 
RENEGADE OPIUM WARLORDS.  ALL THE FACTIONS FREELY ROAMED THE SHAN TERRITORY 
PRESSING SHAN PEOPLE INTO THEIR SERVICE AS FARMERS, PORTERS AND GUIDES. THESE 
FORCES SHARED LITTLE OF THEIR FINANCIAL GAINS WITH THE SHAN POPULATION, BUT 
WERE FREE TO DISPENSE TORTURE, RAPE AND MURDER TO ALL WHO WOULD NOT CO)OPERATE 
WITH THEM.  TO PROVIDE FOOD AND FREEDOM FOR HIS PEOPLE, KHUN SA ORGANIZED HIS
ARMY AND TURNED TO OPIUM CULTIVATION FOR HIS INCOME.

AS THE YEARS PASSED KHUN SA GAINED MILITARY SUPERIORITY IN THE SHAN STATE.  HE 
BEGAN TO SLOWLY PHASE OUT THE)CULTIVATION OF OPIUM AMONG THE SHAN POPULATION.  
TO REPLACE THAT BLOCK OF INCOME HE STARTED TO COLLECT TAXES WHILE PROVIDING
SAFE TRANSPORTATION AND PASSAGE THROUGH HIS TERRITORY TO THE DAILY CARAVANS OF
NARCOTIC TRAFFICKERS ON THEIR WAY TO THE SOUTHERN OUTLETS OF THAILAND.

TODAY, KHUN SA STILL HAS SOME SMALL ISOLATED POCKETS OF OPIUM CULTIVATION 
AMONG THE SHAN PEOPLES.  HE IS ATTEMPTING TO ERADICATE THESE FIELDS AS QUICKLY 
AS HE CAN PROVIDE ALTERNATE INCOME PROGRAMS FOR HIS FARMERS.

PROPOSAL:

KHUN SA IS PREPARED TO IMPLEMENT A PHASE OUT PROGRAM TO COMPLETELY STOP THE 
CULTIVATION OF OPIUM IN THE SHAN TERRITORIES.  HE IS PREPARED TO ESTABLISH A 
MILITARY CONTROL SYSTEM TO COMPLETELY STOP THE PASSAGE OR NARCOTIC TRAFFICKERS
FROM CHINA, BURMA AND LAOS ON THEIR TRAVELS TO THE THAILAND OUTLETS THROUGH
THE SHAN TERRITORIES.

TO IMPLEMENT THIS PROPOSAL, KHUN SA STATES THAT HE COULD MAINTAIN MILITARY
CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE IN THAT AREA FOR ABOUT HALF THE COST OF THE CURRENT
U.S. BUDGET EXPENDED BY THE D.E.A.  FORCES NOW STATIONED IN THAILAND.  A
PROPOSAL TO REALIZE INCOME FOR HIS PEOPLE THROUGH THE SALE OF THE TERRITORIES
NATURAL RESOURCES WILL BE PRESENTED IN ITEM # FOUR, "TRADE MISSION".

2: THE CORRUPTION OF THAI, BURMA AND D.E.A. OFFICIALS.

BACKGROUND:

 THE NARCOTIC ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONAL STAFFS OF BURMA, THAILAND AND THE U.S. 
D.E.A. HAVE FOR YEARS ATTEMPTED TO STOP THE FLOW OF NARCOTICS FROM THE GOLDEN 
TRIANGLE AREA.  LARGE BUDGETS ARE EXPENDED BY OUR GOVERNMENT TO SUPPORT THESE
ACTIVITIES WHICH RANGE FROM THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE TO THE OCCASIONAL
BOMBING, RAIDING AND BURNING OF SOME ISOLATED OPIUM PRODUCING FIELDS.  IN ALL
THE TOTAL PROGRAM HAS NOT MET WITH ANY APPRECIABLE SUCCESS.

tHE BURMA GOVERNMENT, FUNDED BY THE D.E.A., HAVE ENGAGED IN A SERIES OF 
INDISCRIMINATING BOMBING RAIDS ON SUSPECTED VILLAGES KILLING AND WOUNDING
COUNTLESS INNOCENT WOMEN AND CHILDREN.  THEY HAVE SPRAYED OPIUM FIELDS AND
VILLAGES WITH CHEMICAL THAT NOT ONLY KILL THE VEGETATION BUT ALSO POISON THE
SURROUNDING WATER SUPPLIES AND SUBSEQUENT NEW PLANT GROWTH.  HUNDREDS OF
VILLAGERS HAVE SUFFERED CRUEL AND SLOW DEATHS BY DRINKING POLLUTED 
WATERS\j\AND EATING NEWLY GROWN VEGETABLES RAISED IN POISONED FIELDS.  082986

THAI AND D.E.A. CORRUPT OFFICIALS ARE USING U.S. FUNDS TO PURCHASE NARCOTICS 
FOR RE SALE, SELLING U.S. ARMS TO KHUN SA'S FORCES AND ARE INVOLVED IN A HOST 
OF OTHER ILLEGAL ACTIVES.  AS LONG AS THESE CORRUPT OPERATIONS CONTINUE , IT 
WILL BE IMPOSSIBLE TO ELIMINATE THE OPIUM OPERATIONS IN THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE.

PROPOSAL:

KHUN SA IS PREPARING HARD DOCUMENTATION OF THE CORRUPT ACTS OF THE THAI AND 
D.E.A. OFFICIALS CONCERNED.  HE PROPOSES THAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT WITHDRAW THE 
CORRUPT D.E.A.  PERSONNEL FROM THAT OPERATIONAL AREA AND REPLACE THEM WITH A
NEW CADRE OF TRUSTED U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENTS.  KHUN SA WELCOMES THE CONCEPT OF
HAVING OBSERVERS TO MONITOR HIS NARCOTIC ERADICATION ACTIVITIES IN THE SHAN
TERRITORIES.

3: AMERICAN M.I.A./P.O.W.'S IN LAOS.

BACKGROUND

 DURING THE RAINY SEASON IN THE LATE 1978 KHUN SA'S FORCES FOUND 4 U.S. M/I/A/ 
PERSONNEL IN THE NORTHERN JUNGLES OF LAOS.  HIS FORCES ESCORTED THE 4 MEN TO
THE MEKONG RIVER.  WHILE ATTEMPTING TO CROSS THE RAIN SWOLLEN RIVER, THE 4
U.S.  PERSONNEL. THREE OF KHUN SA'S SOLDIERS AND TWO HORSES WERE SWEPT AWAY BY
THE RAGING WATERS AND ALL WERE DROWNED.

KHUN SA HAS HAD REPEATED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS OF THE LOCATION OF U.S. AND
FOREIGN PERSONNEL HELD CAPTIVE IN LAOS.  HAVING NO SPECIAL USE FOR THIS
INFORMATION, IT WAS IGNORED.

AT MY REQUEST, KHUN SA CONFIRMED THE EXISTENCE OF SOME 70 U.S. M.I.A./P.O.W.'S 
AND APPROXIMATELY 12 KOREANS, 5 FILIPINOS AND A HOST OF LAOSIAN'S BEING 
CONFINED IN SEVERAL LOCATIONS.  ONE GROUP IS WORKING AS FORCED LABORERS IN A
GOLD MINE IN THE NORTHERN SECTOR OF LAOS.  THIS INFORMATION WAS INDEPENDENTLY
CONFIRMED IN MY MEETING WITH THE LEADERS OF THE UNITED LAO PEOPLE FRONT FOR
THE LIBERATION OF LAOS.  (UFLLL).

PROPOSAL:

KHUN SA AS A GESTURE OF HIS SINCERITY AND GOODWILL TO THE PEOPLE OF AMERICA, 
AND ESPECIALLY TO THE PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S.A. IS PREPARED 
TO RESCUE THE AMERICAN PERSONNEL AND DELIVER THEM SAFELY INTO OUR HANDS.  HE 
WILL DO THIS EMPLOYING HIS OWN TROOPS AND FUNDS, ASKING ONLY FOR SOME SMALL 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE FORM OF SOME RIVER CROSSING EQUIPMENT AND AN AIR 
EVACUATION FORCE TO REMOVE THE AMERICANS FROM HIS TERRITORY.  \j\

 PRIOR TO MY DEPARTURE FROM HO)MONG, KHUN SA DISPATCHED RECON
TEAMS TO OBTAIN HARD PHOTOGRAPHIC AND POSSIBLE INDIVIDUAL I.D.
CONFIRMATIONS FROM THE VARIOUS PRISONER SITES.
082986

4: REGISTRATION OF A TRADE MISSION:

BACKGROUND:

SHANLAND HAS VAST RICH NATIONAL RESOURCES.  IF PROPERLY MANAGED AND PRESENTED
TO THE WORLD MARKET, THESE RESOURCES COULD PROVIDE THE FUNDING FOR KHUN SA'S
OPIUM ERADICATION PROGRAM AND MAINTAIN THE ONGOING ECONOMY FOR THE SHAN
POPULACE.

PROPOSAL:

KHUN SA HAS COMMISSIONED THE UNDERSIGNED TO ESTABLISH TRADE MISSIONS IN THE 
FREE WORLD.  A REQUEST FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE UNITED STATES IN RECOGNIZING THE
TRADE MISSION IS MADE BY KHUN SA IN A TAPED MESSAGE TO THE VICE PRESIDENT .  A
COPY OF THE ENGLISH TRANSLATION IS ATTACHED.  (REFERENCE: EXHIBIT " B ")"
LETTER OF APPOINTMENT", AND EXHIBIT "C" ) " TAPED MESSAGE TO VICE PRESIDENT
BUSH, FROM KHUN SA" ).

5: HERBAL MEDICAL CURE FOR NARCOTIC ADDICTS.

BACKGROUND:

IN THE 1800'S THE BRITISH INTRODUCED OPIUM INTO MAINLAND CHINA.  A CHINESE 
HERB DOCTOR, ALARMED AT THE GROWING NUMBER OF NARCOTIC ADDICTS, DEVELOPED A 
MIXTURE OF HERBS USED TO CURE ADDICTS OF THEIR CRAVINGS FOR NARCOTICS.  THE
PROCESS STARTED WITH THE INGESTION OF A SMALL QUANTITY OF THE HERBAL MIXTURE.
THE ADDICT THEN EXPERIENCED 12 TO 15 HOURS OF SLEEP.  FOR THE NEXT FEW DAYS
THE ADDICT DETOXIFIED BY PASSING THE BODY POISONS THROUGH THE URINE AND SWEAT
GLANDS.  AFTER LESS THAN ONE WEEK , THE ADDICT WOULD BEGIN TO EAT NORMALLY AND
BEGIN TO GAIN WEIGHT.  MOST TREATMENTS TOOK BETWEEN SEVEN TO TEN DAYS TO
COMPLETE.  UPON COMPLETION, THE FORMER ADDICT WAS READY TO RETURN TO HIS
NORMAL LIFE DUTIES, HAVING LOST ALL CRAVINGS AND DESIRES FOR ANY DRUGS.

THIS PROCESS IS STILL IN USE TODAY.  A SPECIAL CLINIC IN BANGKOK HAS TREATED
OVER 10,000 ADDICTS USING THE SAME HERBAL MIXTURE AS PASSED ON BY THE OLD
CHINESE DOCTOR.

PROPOSAL:

KHUN SA HAS OFFERED THIS FORMULA AND PROCESS TO THE U.S.A.  AND THE FREE WORLD 
AS THE FIRST OFFERING TO BE PASSED THROUGH THE TRADE MISSION.  PRODUCT 
VALIDITY SUPPORT OF THE TESTING OF SAMPLES AND ENDORSEMENT BY THE U.S. DEPT. 
OF HEALTH IS REQUESTED.  082986

SUMMARY:

KHUN SA IS EXTREMELY DESIROUS TO ALIGNING HIS PEOPLE WITH THE UNITED STATES OF 
AMERICA.  THE RUSSIANS HAVE BOMBARDED HIM WITH OFFERS OF ECONOMIC AND MILITARY 
AID.  HE IS RESISTING THEIR TEMPTING OFFERS, AND WHILE HE HAS AGREED TO SEND 
80 YOUNG STUDENTS TO RUSSIA FOR TRAINING, WILL STOP THE ACTIVITY UPON SEEING
ANY OVERT OR COVERT EXPRESSION OF SUPPORT FROM THE U.S.A.

KHUN SA HAS EXPRESSED IN LENGTH HIS NEED AND CONCERNS FOR THE ORDERLY 
TRANSITION OF SHANLAND INTO AN INDEPENDENT STATE.  A NEW PROPOSAL PLAN WAS 
DISCUSSED, AND WILL BE PRESENTED TO THE VICE PRESIDENT IN PERSON BY THE
UNDERSIGNED.

IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT IN A SHORT SPAN OF TIME SOME MESSAGE BE SENT BACK TO 
KHUN SA REGARDING THE U.S. POSITION ON THE MATTERS LISTED HEREIN.  IF WE FAIL
TO RESPOND, TOTALLY IGNORE HIM,, HE WILL IN TIME, BE FORCED FOR ECONOMIC
SURVIVAL TO TURN TO THE RUSSIANS.

I AWAIT YOUR PERSONAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING THE PRESENTATION OF A FULL AND 
DETAILED BRIEFING OF THE KHUN SA MEETING.

RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED BY:

AUTHUR M. SUCHESK PH.D

AUGUST 29, 1986

:





>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>







KHUN SA TO GEORGE BUSH

8)12)88


TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDED MESSAGE FROM SAO KHUN SA, SHANLAND TO GEORGE BUSH, VICE
PRESIDENT, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. DATED: 08-12-1986 IN THE VILLAGE OF
HO-MONG, SHAN TERRITORY, BURMA.  TO THE HONORABLE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, MR. BUSH.

SINCE MR. SUCHESK CAME TO OUR PLACE TO MEET ME IN THE VILLAGE OF HO-MONG, WE
DISCUSSED THE SITUATION IN CHINA, BURMA AND THAILAND AND ABOUT THE D.E.A. AND
OPIUM AND ALSO THE AMERICAN P.0.W. IN LAOS.

THEREFORE I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE THE LIBERTY TO EXPRESS MY INTENTIONS AND IN
VIEW OF YOUR SITUATION TO YOUR EXCELLENCY VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA, I BELIEVE YOUR EXCELLENCY IS AN HONORABLE MAN.

WHEN MR. JOSEPH NELLIS ( U.S. CONGRESS ) CAME TO MEET ME.IN 1977, I PROPOSED A 
GUARANTEED SIX YEAR PLAN TO END THE OPIUM PRODUCTION IN SHAN STATE. I KNOW 
THAT OPIUM IS HARMFUL TO SO MANY PEOPLE. I WANT TO HELP SOLVE THIS PROBLEM. I
TELL THEM (JOE NELLIS ) THAT THE METHODS THE AMERICANS HAVE BEEN PURSUING SO
FAR WAS AN INEFFECTIVE PRUNING METHOD. TO CUT OFF LEAVES OF SOME ISOLATED
BRANCHES, BUT THE TREE NEVER DIES!

MY SIX YEAR PLAN IN CONTRAST WAS THE UPROOTING METHOD, A SURE WAY TO END THE 
PROBLEM. SO IF D.E.A. REALLY WANT TO END IT, THEY SHOULD HAVE APPROACHED US,
INSTEAD THEY SENT OUR OWN BROTHERS THE THAI MILITARY UNITS TO HUNT ME DOWN,
ALL TOGETHER FOR 36 TIMES! IF THEY AIM TO GO ON DOING THE JOB THIS WAY, WE CAN
BET THEY CAN GO ON FOR ANOTHER 60 YEARS AND NEVER SUCCEED.  I HAVE SHOWN A
DRAFT OF MY PLAN TO MR. NELLIS AND AGAIN SEND IT TO YOU THROUGH MR. SUCHESK.

NOW PLEASE LET ME PRESENT A SHORT ACCOUNT OF HOW THE REBELLION AND THE OPIUM 
PROBLEM IN BURMA HAVE DEVELOPED TO THIS DATE. SHAN STATE HAS BEEN A
PROTECTORATE STATE UNDER BRITISH RULE BEFORE 1948. SHAN PEOPLE MADE AN
AGREEMENT TO TAKE INDEPENDENCE WITH THE BURMESE ON A CONDITION THAT SHAN STATE
COULD SUCCEED FROM BURMA AS AN INDEPENDENT STATE AFTER 10 YEARS.  THAT WAS
WRITTEN IN THE 1948 BURMA CONSTITUTION, WHICH GENERAL NE WIN HAD ABOLISHED.
SINCE THEN THE SHAN REBELLION BEGAN.

AFTER THE INDEPENDENCE OF BURMA, THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF BURMA ALSO MADE 
NORTHERN SHAN STATE ITS STRONGHOLD, AND THE KMT REMNANTS CAME IN FROM CHINA IN
EARLY 1950. BEING OPPRESSED BY NE WIN REGIME, THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF BURMA AND
THE KMT REMNANTS, THE PEOPLE OF SHAN STATE WERE ON THE VERGE OF STARVATION SO
THEY TURNED TO OPIUM CULTIVATION WHICH THE KMT ENCOURAGED THEM TO DO

SINCE THEN, OPIUM HAS BEEN AN EVER GROWING PROBLEM. THE PEOPLE GROW.IT NEVER
KNOW WHERE THEIR OPI0M IS HEADING FOR. THEY JUST SELL TO WHOM EVER BUY IT AND
WITH THAT MONEYS THEY WILL BUY OTHER LIFE NECESSITIES.

AS I HAVE SAID THE D.E.A. HAS TRIED SO MANY TIMES TO HUNT ME DOWN, DROVE ME 
OUT OF THAILAND AND SAID WITHIN THREE MONTHS KHUN SA WOULD BE DEAD, OR HE 
WOULD FLEE TO RANGOON, OR GO JOIN THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF BURMA. IN REALITY FOR 
KHUN SA, THERE IS NO NEED TO RUN AWAY TO ANY OTHER PLACE. HE HAS HIS NATIVE
LAND SHAN STATE. SINCE HE IS WORKING FOR HIS PEOPLE THEY SUPPORT HIM WITH WHAT
THEY HAVE, RICE, CORN, SALT, CLOTHES, MONEY AND IF THEY ONLY HAVE OPIUM, THEY
GIVE HIM OPIUM.

CONCERNING THE OPIUM PROBLEM, DON'T THINK THAT THE BURMA, THAI AND D.E.A. 
REALLY WANT TO FIND THE REAL SOLUTION. .THE RESULTS OF THEIR WORK MAY BE THE 
BEST PROOF, AND STILL THE U.S.  GOVERNMENT SUPPORTS THEM, AND WILL NOT EVEN
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT MY SIX YEAR PLAN, MY GUARANTEE, INSTEAD THEY SUPPORT THOSE
WHO ARE KILLING OUR PEOPLE.

HATE FOR THE U.S.A. IS GROWING IN THE HEARTS OF OUR PEOPLE.  THEY SAY THE
U.S.A. IS KILLING OUR PARENTS FOR THE SAKE OF OUR CHILDREN, AND KILLING OUR
CHILDREN FOR THE SAKE OF OUR PARENTS.  WE ARE NOT SELLING OUR OPIUM TO THEM,
THEY CAN STAY AWAY FROM BUYING, WHY ALL THIS KILLING?

THEY USE HERBICIDES TO SPRAY ON OUR FARMS THAT KILLS NOT ONLY OPIUM PLANTS BUT 
ALSO OTHER VEGETABLES, INCLUDING GRASS AND LIVESTOCK. IT ALSO POISONS WATER 
AROUND THE AREAS WHICH CLAIMS A THREAT TO HUMAN LIVES. IS THAT THE POLICY OF
HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE U.S.A. DO THEY THINK THAT OUR LIVES ARE NOT AS VALUABLE AS
THEIRS? FOR MY PART I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT IF THE U.S.A.  WANTS TO STOP US
FROM GROWING OPIUM, THEY SHOULD STOP GROWING WHEAT, WHERE THEN ARE THEY GOING
TO GET THEIR BREAD?. ( MONEY ) FORGIVE ME FOR SAYING THIS SIR, I'M NOT MEANING
TO BE RUDE, I ONLY WANT YOU TO BE SYMPATHETIC.

OUR COUNTRY IS SURROUNDED BY CHINA, LAOS, THAILAND AND THE LOW LANDS OF BURMZ. 
AGAIN THEY ( OPIUM DEALERS) COME FROM THAILAND, FROM CHINA. WHEN EVER THE
THAI'S DO SOMETHING BAD TO OUR PEOPLE, THEY SAY THAT IT IS D.E.A., AND D.E.A.
IS AMERICANS!  IN THIS WAY THE HATE TOWARDS AMERICAN PEOPLE GROWS.

YOUR EXCELLENCY, I AM SINCERE IN SAYING THAT I WANT TO HELP SOLVE THIS
PROBLEM. IF YOU DON'T BELIEVE ME, SEND ANOTHER GROUP TO ME TO COMPETE AGAINST
THE D.E.A. TO WORK TOWARDS THE SOLUTION.  THE RESULTS WILL SOON BE SEEN.
WHOEVER CAN SOLVE THE NARCOTIC PROBLEM IN THE GOLDEN TRIANGLE WILL BE ONE OF
THE GREAT HEROES IN THE WORLD, AND I WISH TO HELP HIM.

I BELIEVE THAT EVERY LEADER OF HIS NATION IS WORKING FOR THE WELFARE OF HIS
PEOPLE, AND THE WELFARE OF ALL MANKIND. I BELIEVE THAT YOUR EXCELLENCY WOULD
BE INTERESTED IN SERVING ALL MANKIND.  IF WE ARE ABLE TO FREE OUR SHAN STATE
TO BECOME AN INDEPENDENT STATE, WITH THE HELP OF YOUR EXCELLENCY, WE WOULD
EVEN BE PLEASED TO BECOME ONE OF THE STATES OF THE U.S.A. AND A BASE TO
PREVENT THE SPREADING OF COMMUNISM.

I HOPE THE VISIT OF MR. SUCHESK AND MR. DICK HSU WILL BECOME A STEPPING STONE
TO OUR CLOSER RELATIONSHIP WHICH WILL LEAD TO THE SALVATION OF VICTIMS OF THE
WORLD.

I BEG YOUR EXZELLENCY TO HELP THE PEOPLE OF SHAN STATE.  SHAN STATE IS A VZRY
BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY RICH IN MINERALS AND FORESTS AND FREE FROM ALL KINDS OF
NATURAL DISASTERS. IF THERE IS ANYONE WHO WOULD WISH TO HELP US, WE BELIEVE WE
COULD PAY YOU BACK WITH OUR NATURAL RESOURCES.

IF SHAN STATE BECOMES AN INDEPENDENT STATE I AM CERTAIN IT WOULD BE EVEN MORE 
PROGRESSIVE THAN SINGAPORE AND IT CAN BECOME A PLACE WHERE UNIVERSITIES CAN BE
ESTABLISHED AND PEOPLE FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD WOULD WANT TO ATTEND,
BECAUSE IT IS A CALM AND BEAUTIFUL PLACE WITH MODERATE CLIMATE AND FREE FROM
NATURAL DISASTERS.

AS A FIRST STEP TO FIND WAYS OF EARNING MONEYS TO SUBSTITUTE THE OPIUM 
CULTIVATION, WE WOULD LIKE TO MANUFACTURE SOUVENIR COINS AND STAMPS IN GOLD 
AND SILVER, AS MR. SUCHESK HAS SUGZESTED. BUT WE HAVE VERY LITTLE EDUCATED
PEOPLE TO HANDLE THIS, SO I BEG YOUR EXCELLENCY TO ALLOW MR. SUCHESK AND MR.
DICK HSU TO COME AND HELP US IN THIS FIELD.












   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       



September 17, 1987



Mr. Edwin Meese, III
Attorney General
Main Justice Building
10th & Constitution Avenue Northwest
Washington, D.C.  20530

Re: Citizen Complaint of Wrongdoing by Federal Officers

Dear Mr. Meese:

I am writing to you to register my complaints about certain actions that have
been carried out against me and my associates.  I believe these actions
constitute violations of our civil rights as well as violations of the
criminal law in some instances.  These actions are all the more reprehensible
in that they are politically motivated.  I take this means to request that you
investigate these matters and, where appropriate, reprimand the individuals
involved and file criminal charges.

Let me explain my situation to you.  I am a veteran of the United States Army.
I served with the Special Forces in the Vietnam War for more than two years
between 1964 and 1970.  I consider myself to be a patriot and am proud of my
service to this country.  Since the end of the Vietnam War, I have been
actively involved in seeking to locate and free American POW's and MIA's left
behind in Southeast Asia.  I have been associated in these activities with Lt.
Col. James "Bo" Gritz and others, including Scott Weekly.  I believe our
efforts have been carried out with the tacit ) if not always, overt ) approval
of certain elements within our government.  These government and military
officials share our goal of freeing these forgotten Americans.

In the fall of 1986 Col. Gritz and Mr. Weekly went to Burma.  They had 
received intelligence from the "Basement of the White House", which led them 
to believe certain Burmese had information about American POW's.  These leads
proved to be unfounded.  However, on that trip Col Gritz learned about illegal
furg trafficking directed by U.S. government)related operatives.  These drup
dealing activities were on such a scale that they were used to fund covert,
para)military operations in Southeast Asia and in other parts of the world.

In May of 1987 I went to Burma with Col. Gritz and others.  We brought back 
startling evidence directly linking American officials with illegal drug 
trafficking.  A report on this Burma trip is attached hereto as Exhibit "A."

Over the years it has baffled me why the U.S. Government would not actively 
and vigorously pursue the release of our POW's and MIA's.  Now, the answer is 
clear.  Any renewed American activity in Southeast Asia, on a scale necessary
to the release of the abandoned POW's and MIA's, would attract unwanted
attention to covert activities in the are.  Government)sponsored drug
trafficking is an explosive subject.  Obviously, many government elements want
the story left untold.

Scott Weekly was charged with illegal transportation of explosives.  He was 
made promises by ATF Agent Thomas Hahn which induced him to plead guilty to 
the charges.  It is, of course, highly improper for law enforcement officials
to make promises, especially false promises, to criminal defendants to
persuade them to plead to criminal charges.  This was done in Mr. Weekly's
case.  Pages were extracted from his pre)sentence report which would, very
likely have mitigated his sentence.  This action would have to have been known
about and approved by the Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Korotash.  In
Montana, Mr. Korotash's activities would have violated the Canons of
Professional Ethics, which hold:

``"a public prosecutor or other government lawyer in criminal litigation shall 
make timely disclosure to counsel for the defendant, or to the defendant if he 
has no counsel, of the existence of evidence, known to the prosecutor or other 
government lawyer, that tends to negate the guilt of the accused, mitigate the
degree of the offense, or reduce the punishment." DR 7*103(b)^E^

``"A lawyer shall not suppress any evidence that he or his client has a legal 
obligation to reveal or produce." DR 7)109(A)^E^

I believe Agent Hahn and Attorney Korotash conspired to violate \Mr. Weekly's
rights by persuading him not to retain effective counsel and to plead guilty.

Thereafter, Col. Gritz was charged with a passport violation and has 
registered his own complaint, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 
"B." Col. Gritz recently informed me that U.S.  government representatives
offered him government employment and dismissal of the charges against him if
he would cease activities relative to the POW's and stay out of Southeast
Asia.  In other words, if Col. Gritz would shut up and cease his activities in
Southeast Asia everything would be all right ) for him.  As usual no thought
was given to the POW's and MIA's nor their families and loved ones.

Following my return from Burma on June 1, 1987, Col. Gritz was charged.  I set 
out to investigate facts relative to the passport violation charge as well as
the Scott Weekly situation.  During the course of my short investigation there 
were several incidents which took place that were certainly blatant violations 
of my rights as a U.S. citizen.  Itt is my opinion that the reason these 
violations took place is because I had in my possession\j\reports, documents 
and tapes which accuse and support accusations that U.S. Government officials 
deal in drugs and certain government employees have lied and obstructed 
justice in order to convict perfectly innocent persons of criminal 
wrongdoings.

I believe they have been motivated by a desire to silence myself and my 
associates to keep the lid on the drug trafficking evidence we have uncovered.  
Short of that, they seek to discredit us and the information we've obtained.

I traveled to Seattle, Washington, on June 27, 1987, to interview a U.S. 
Customs Agent named James Foley.  Mr. Foley's telephone number is (206)
442)1974.  His address is 1580 South 156th Street, Seattle.

I spoke with Inspector Foley and told him I needed to locate the customs agent 
who passed Col. Gritz used, which was stamped at SEA)TAC Airport by Agent 
1099.  Attached hereto as Exhibit "C" is a copy of the passport.  I told him
that Col. Gritz had had several passports with him and the agent had taken him
to an interrogation room.  There he told Col. Gritz he hoped he had a
telephone number they could call.  Col. Gritz gave them a number and one of
the customs men left.  Returning a few minutes later, he said "Okay Col.
Gritz, you're free to go".  Inspector Foley told me he may know hwo the
customs agent was that finally cleared Col. Gritz through.  He said that the
number stamped in the passport may or may not mean anything but he may
possibly recognize the handwriting.

The next day, June 27th, I contacted Inspector Foley at his home.  He told me 
he had spoken with another Inspector named Arthur Henning.  He said he had
asked Henning if he could remmeber an incident about five years ago when a
Green Beret Colonel came through customs with several passports.  Inspector
Foley told me Inspector Henning immediately told him, "James `Bo` Gritz."
Henning said he remembered the incident because of the publicity Col. Gritz
received on the POW issue shortly thereafter.  Henning said he had taken Col.
Gritz to an interview room along with another customs agent, John Hood.  Col.
Gritz had given them a telephone number whihc Henning said was to the State
Department.  Henning told Foley he handled the incident.  He said Agent Hood
may have written down the telephone number Gritz had given them a telephone
number which Henning said was to the State Department.  Henning told Foley he
handled the incident.  He said Agent Hood may have written down the telephone
number Gritz gave them in his notes and could still possibly have it.  He told
Foley the call to the State Department would have been made by a supervisor,
possibly Lynne Robson, who is now dead.  Henning told Foley he remembered Col. 
Gritz was carrying at least three passports.  He, also, said there would be a 
"Negative Search Report" on the incident.  I sought this information because 
we had been led by U.S. Attorney Wulfson that this type evidence should have 
been sufficient to result in the dismissal of the charges against Col.  Gritz 
regarding the fraudulent passport.  After receiving this\j\information from 
me, Col. Gritz's attorney, Lamond Mills, contacted Wulfson.  Wulfson told 
Mills he had already talked to Customs Inspector Henning about the incident, 
but that he wasn't dropping any charges, despite what he had said earlier.

About that same time I was contacted by an investigative reporter named Tony
Kimerey from Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.  Kimerey told me he was in the office of
the Assistant U.S. Attorney, Stephen Korotash.  Jerry Bohnen, a KTOK news
reporter, was there too.  Kimerey can be reached at telephone number (404)
525)6780.  Jerry Bohnen can be reached at (405) 840)1948.  Also present in the
office was Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms Agent Tom Hahn.  Kimerey said that ATF
Agent Tom Hahn told him, in the presence of Korotash and Bohnen, that he
(Hahn) had removed 9 pages from the documents that went before Federal Judge
Alley, before the sentencing of Scott Weekly.  The pages that Hahn removed
were letters from several different Government agencies corroborating the
story that Scott Weekly was involved in the Afghan traiing program which was
sanctioned by the U.S. Government.  If it were so, that the program was
sanctioned by the government, then no laws would have been broken in shipping
the C)4 by commercial air carrier.  Kimerey also said that a U.S. Government
investigator, who has done investigations for the U.S. Attorney's Office in
Oklahoma City, told him he could not understand why ATF Agent Hahn and U.S.
Attorney Korotash were being so malicious in prosecuting and railroading Scott
Weekly.

On July 18th, I traveled to Vancouver, British Columbia to find a man named
Ahmad Rashid and his wife, Margaret.  Ahmad was Scott Weekly and Col. Gritz's
government contact in the Afghan training program.  A meeting with Ahmad,
Scott Weekly and Col. Gritz was set up in August 1986 by William Bode, then
Special Assistant to the Under Secretary of State for Security Assistance.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Korotash and ATF Agent Hahn have been saying all along
that there was no Afghan traiing.  They claim Weekly and Col. Gritz were
selling explosives ot the Iranians.  This is utterly ridiculous.  I had
thought at one time that maybe they really didn't know about the Afghan
training.  Maybe they were being lied to by persons in the government.  But
now I find that Agent Hahn has been in contact with William Bode since the
early days, even before Weekly was arrested in December of 1986.  Hahn was
given a training schedule of the Afghan training by William Bode.  Bode
admitted this to Col. Gritz.

Upon my arrival in Vancouver, British Columbia, I contacted Margaret Rashid, 
wife of Ahmad.  Margaret had assisted her husband in the briefing of Col. 
Gritz and Scott Weekly.  Margaret and Ahmad were to have given Gritz and 
Weekly all of their knowledge on the Mujahadeen Afghan Freedom Fighters so 
that they could use this knowledge in training several different factions of 
Mujahadeen in hopes of unifying them.  I was lucky to have reached Margaret 
when I did because she was getting ready to leave Vancouver within a few days 
to join her husband in\j\Montreal.  Ahmad was in Montreal looking for a place 
for them to live.

Margaret and I talked about her role in giving the information to Weekly and 
Gritz about the Mujahadeen in August of 1986.  Margaret told me that she and 
Ahmad were in constant contact with William Bode.  She said that Bode was 
their U.S. Government contact.  As a matter of fact Bode was the one that gave 
her and Ahmad the money to move to Montreal.  This evidence would provce that 
this was a government)sponsored program.  That being the case, Weekly should 
not have been convicted of the crime he was charged with.  Bode and his 
associates were trying to get the Rashids out of Vancouver before Col. Gritz 
or anyone tried to contact them.  Margaret said she also knew of Gritz and 
Weekly's problem.  She knew Weekly was in jail but she did not exactly know 
why.  She said she had a three way telephone conversation with Bode and 
another man from the U.S. Government some time ago.  The man from the U.S. 
Government was the one who suggested they move to Montreal away from 
Vancouver.  He was also the one who suggested that Bode give them the money to 
move on so that we could not find them.  Margaret could not remember the name
of the U.S. Government official they had the conversation with, but I found
out later it was ATF Agent Tom Hahn.

William Bode had called Col. Gritz about the same time I was visiting 
MArgaret.  He had no idea I had been talking to her.  He told Col. Gritz he 
had just heard of Weekly`s being in jail.  He told Col. Gritz he was no longer
working in Afghan studies or in the State Department.  He told Gritz that he
hadn't been there since last February.  He said that if someone had contacted
him before he would have at least given ATF a copy of the Afghan training
schedule to prove Weekly was working under the auspices of the Government.

A few days later, when Bode had found out I had talked to Margaret Rashid, he 
again called Col. Gritz.  He asked Col. Gritz who Lance Trimmer was.  He told
Col. Gritz he had tried helping all he could. He said he had given Agent Hahn
a copy of the training schedule.  In the prior converstaion he had said he may
have given him a copy.  He also stated then that ATF Agent Hahn was the third
person on the three way telephone conversation with him and the Rashids.

The above information are all lies told by Government employees ATF Agent Hahn 
and Assistant U.S. Attorney Korotash have lied from the beginning and they
continue to lie.  My attorney in Oklahoma City, Frank Miskovski, who is a very
prominent attorney in that area, told me that he has not once talked to ATF
Agent Hahn that Hahn had not lied to him.

Hahn admitted to two reporters that he omitted several pages of documents to 
be presented to a U.S. Federal Judge in recommending a long jail term for 
Scott Weekly.  This was a clear violation of Weekly's rights.  Hahn was 
instrumental in trying to hide\j\witnesses that could prove Scott Weekly's 
innocence.  Those witnesses could have proven that Weekly was involved in a 
legitimate, U.S. Governemnt)approved, training program of Mujahadeen Afghan 
Freedom Fighters.  It seems very clear to me that Assistant U.S. Attorney 
Korotash was also involved in the hiding of these documents.

I have continuously tried to determine why ATF Agent Hahn and U.S. Attorney 
Korotash would want so badly to put Col. Gritz and Scott Weekly in jail.  The 
only conclusion that I have is that some persons or people higher up in the 
Government are pressuring them to muzzle Col. Gritz.  Col. Gritz is a proven 
American hero, whose only goal in life is to bring home American Prisoners of 
War left behind in Southeast Asia after the Vietnam War.  The government wants 
to stop him from giving to the Americna people documents and evidence that
show U.S. Government officials are now, and have been, dealing in drugs.

These are acts of governmental agents involving the obstruction of justice and 
illegal suppression of evidence, which would show the charges against both 
Weekly and Gritz to be ill)founded.

Now, let me address the acts which have carried out against me.

I was arrested at the U.S./Canadian Point of Entry, Blaine, Washinton, on 
August 13, 1987, by U.S. Customs officials.  I was arrested on a warrant,
issued out of the federal district court of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.  There
were no charges.  I was wanted as a material witness to testify before the
grand jury in Oklahoma.

Immediately following my arrest, I was searched and placed in a holding cell.  
I was told by a Customs Agent that they were going to look in my car.  Much 
later, three agents came to my cell.  One of them, who appeared to be in
charge, introduced himself as Jim Williams.  He read me my rights and asked me
a couple of questions.  I would not answer his questions but told him I was
sure he had read a report that was in my bag that would answer all the
questions he had.  He insinuated that what he had read was interesting.  One
of the agents with him asked me if I had a number that he could call.  What he
meant was, he wanted to know if I was working for some government agency.  I
told him I had none.  I don't believe he would have asked that had he not read
papers in my briefcase.  I was then chained up with leg irons, belts and
handcuffs and taken to Whatcom County Jail where I was booked in,
finger)printed and mugged.  I was told that ATF Agents would pick me up in the
morning and take me before a magistrate in Seattle.

The next day two ATF Agents, Norm Prins and Jane Heffner, picked me up for 
transfer to the Seattle U.S. Marshall's Office.  Agent Prins handcuffed me 
with my hands behind my back, put me in leg irons and escorted me to his 
vehicle for the 1 1/2 hour drive to Seattle.  He told me he had two of my bags 
in their trunk.  He also said that he had been to the Canadian Border where 
they had picked up my bags from Customs.  I asked where the other two were and 
was told he knew nothing about them.  Obviously, they had searched my car and 
seized and searched my personal property.

On the way in Agent Prins said he'd like me to answer some personal questions 
he had.  He said they had nothing to do with my case because he knew nothing 
about it.  He said his questions had to do with POW's.  If he knew nothing
about my case, he would not have known to ask me about POW's.  I assume he had
read the papers in my briefcase and clothes bag.  We talked about POW's and
also about my Burma Report.

When we arrived at the U.S. Marshall's Office, where I had to appear before
the Magistrate, my hands and arms were asleep from having to sit handcuffed
with my arms behind my back.  The marks and bruises were still on my hands
from the cuffs four days later.  Agent Prins got my two bags out of the trunk
of his car.  I noticed the center section of my clothes bag was still zipped
open.  I never was allowed to look in my bags.  They said they had brought
them to turn over to the U.S. Marshall's Office, but the Marshall's Office
refused to accept them.  They obviously argued over them for some time until
the ATF agents said they would take them and hold them in their office.  I
asked again about my briefcase and clothes bag but was told that Customs had
kept them.  I asked why and was told that they were "doing something" with
them.  I asked what, and was told just "something, but I shouldn't worry about
it." I said abviously they are making copies of my diary and reports.  They
said they didn't know but admitted it was possible.

Before appearing before the Magistrate one of the U.S. Marshalls called the 
Customs Agent Williams and asked about my briefcase and camera case.  I could 
not hear what Agent Williams was saying but when he hung up the Marshall told 
me that Williams would have my bags sent to whatever address I wanted.  I told 
him I wanted my bags brought to me because they also contained my credit cards
and identification which the agents had kept when they took my wallet, also I
told them they had no reason to keep them.  The Marshall then told me they
were "doing something with them." When I asked "what," he said he had no idea.

I was then taken to the Magistrate where I was admitted to a $10,000 bail.  I 
told them I could make bail immediately if I could make a phone call.  This 
was approximately 4:30 p.m.  The Marshalls then took me from the courtroom
back up the elevator to their office.  When we passed a phone I asked if I
could make that call.  They said I could when I got to the office.  When we
reached the office, they had me go into their little holding room and then
fooled around preparing this and that.  I asked again about a call and was
told, "in a minute." It was obvious they were stalling for time since it was
close to 5:00 p.m.  When I was finally allowed to call it was too late for
anything to be done.  This meant I was stuck in jail for the weekend.\j\

I was then allowed to call Custons Agent Williams.  I asked him about my 
briefcase and camera bag.  He said he would send them somewhere for me.  I 
told him I had to have them in my hands.  I needed my identification and 
credit cards to bail out of jail.  He said there was no way to get them to me 
now that the weekend was there.  I told him someone could surely drop them at 
the ATF Office with my other bags.  He said they couldn't do that until 
Monday.  I asked if it was going to take that long to make copies of my 
personal diary and papers.  He said they weren't doing that.  I said what 
about the phone numbers.  He said we are just "doing something" with the bag.  
I said I would like them right away.  He said it was impossible and I would 
get them on Monday or maybe Tuesday.  They would be through with them then.  
He stated he would not be there

personally himself next week but someone else would handle it.  That was the 
best he could do.  I was then taken to Kent, Washington, to the Kent 
Corrections Center.  I was taken there in handcuffs and chains.  I was
fingerprinted and mugged for the third time.

While in the Kent Corrections Center I made four written requests.  The first 
one was made on August 15.  I requested they return my briefcase and personal 
belongings being held by Customs immediately.  This included my credit cards
and other identification.  I was told they could do nothing.  They said I must
contact the agency that had them, although those agencies wouldn't accept a
collect call.  I wrote another request on August 16 and was told the same
thing.  Copies of all four requests are attached as Exhibit "D." On August 17
they would not answer my request and on August 18 I was not allowed to make a
phone call.  They did finally tell me that a U.S. Marshall had brought my
identification cards from Customs on that day after I had told them I would
not leave the jail without my identification even if I was bailed out, because
it was clear they could arrest me for vagrancy.

While in the jail there were two phone calls I made which were very important 
regarding my bail.  On one occasion, I was right at the point of learning a 
phone number that I needed to call to have bail brought immediately, when the
conversation was cut off by whoever was monitoring the call.  Several persons
called the jail with messages for me, with regard to bailing me out, but the
messages were never given to me.  Finally on Tuesday afternoon, August 18, I
was allowed to bail out on a $10,000 cash bond.  The attorney who was
instrumental in bailing me out had to drive me to the Canadian Border at
Blaine, Washington, which was more than 125 miles away in order for me to get
my briefcase and camera bag.

All of the contents in those bags obviously had been removed.  My notes and 
papers were thrown back in completely out of order and it looked as though 
several typewritten notes were missing.  The Customs Agent, Joe Rydell, stated
that I either had to sign an inventory list they had made up or he would not 
return my belongings.  There was no way I could tell if every piece of paper 
was there.  I was never given an inventory list of what they took from me.  
They kept my personal diary, papers, pictures, and identifications cards, 
including credit cards, for six days and refused to return them.  They told me 
they were "doing something" with them.  It was clearly an illegal search and 
seizure.  I was only arrested as a material witness.  I have been a law 
enforcement officer and understand what the term "probable cause" means.  
There was no probable cause to seize my property and search it.  There was no 
reason to treat me like a criminal.  I can understand being jailed on a 
warrant.  I cannot understand being handcuffed, chained, mugged and 
fingerprinted on numerous occasions, being denied access to my property, and 
being denied the opportunity to arrange bail.  All of this was a serious 
violation of my civil rights.

After I finally got released on bail I had to travel more that 200 miles to 
retrieve my personal belongings.  They forced me to personally go out of the 
way which took another day.  It was then too late to travel to my home in 
Montana.  I had to go to California to secure my automobile and then travel to 
Oklahoma City where I was to appear before a Grand Jury on the Subpoena the 
government had issued me upon my arrival.  I called the U.S.  Attorney's 
Office and checked in as I was supposed to do.  The man that I talked to about
transportation to Oklahoma City told me that I should pay my own way and turn
in a voucher on the day I appeared before the Grand Jury.  I then left for
Oklahoma City.  I needed to find a lawyer for my appearance.

When I appeared at the U.S. Attorney's Office with my attorney, Frank 
Miskovski in Oklahoma City, we were met by ATF Agent Tom Hahn.  Tom Hahn
stated that U.S. Attorney Korotash was out of town.  I asked if he was also on
vacation and Hahn replied he didn't know.  He told me Korotash was out of town
and could not be reached.  Hahn said he had been trying to contact me for the
past ten days.  I called him a liar.  He said he was not lying. I told him I
called in twice to the U.S. Attorney's Office.  Hahn stated that I only called
in once.  I told him I called on Monday August 24 and checked in with a woman
secretary.  I also called in on August 26 and told a male I would be coming to
Oklahoma City and wanted to know about travel arrangements.  Hahn said he only
heard of one time I called.  He said that he had called my attorney several
times in Washington.  I called Mike Jordan, my attorney in Washington, on
August 30 from Oklahoma City.  He told me that Hahn had called him on Friday
trying to contact me to tell me they postponed the Grand Jury Hearing.

On September 1st, the day of my scheduled appearance, Hahn gave me a new 
subpoena for September 14.  I asked if my bail would now be returned.  He said 
he didn't see why not.  He would check.  I waited for some time before Hahn 
returned and told my attorney that they were going to hold my cash bail of 
$10,000 until I appeared on September 14.

I left to make a phone call and then returned with my attorney and asked for
Agent Hahn.  I was told he was no longer around.  My attorney asked to speak
with the U.S. Attorney Price.  He was not around.  This was at 11:30 a.m.  We
asked to speak with any U.S. Attorney who could make a decision.  We were
taken to a Chief U.S. Attorney whom I told I wanted my bail returned or to be
put back in jail.  I told him the bail I received was promised to be sent back
to the person it came from on September 1 and I had appeared as promised.
This U.S. Attorney called Agent Hahn who, just a few minutes earlier, could
not be found, and had Hahn come to his office.  He told Hahn I was there to be
put in jail so my bail would be returned.  

Hahn immediately made many calls.  A long time later he came out ant told my 
attorney that they would either return my bail and place me in jail, return my 
bail and release me on my own recognizance or schedule the hearing in the 
morning.  He was to call my attorney at his office.  Later in the afternoon, 
my attorney contacted me about 4:30 p.m. and said that Hahn was obviously a 
habitual liar.  He had finally talked to Hahn after 4:00 p.m. and Hahn told 
him he called 4 or 5 times but couldn't reach him.  My attorney's secretary 
said that Hahn had called once.  My attorney was not in and Hahn did not call 
back.  My attorney called Hahn back twice but could not find him.  He finally 
reached Hahn about 4:10 p.m. and Hahn told him they reset the Grand Jury 
Hearing for the following morning, September 2.  I appeared at 9;00 a.m. on 
September 2nd before the Grand Jury.  I talked about U.S. Officials dealing in
drugs., about General Khun Sa of Burma, about a statement I made of a
complaint being filed regarding charges oif wrongdoing by AFT Agent Hahn.
Halfway through the U>S> Attorney's questions, they stopped the hearing and
tol;d me there would be no more questions.  It was approximately 11:00 a.m.  I
was told that I was free to go and would have to return on Oct. 5.  I believe
that is less than coincidental that Col. Gritz passport violation case is
scheduled for trial in Las Vegas, Nevada, on the very same date.

My attorney and I asked that my bail be returned along with my passport.  AFT 
Agent Hahn said he saw no problem with that.  He said he would clear it with 
U.S. Attorney Blair Watson.  We waited about 45 minutes.  Hahn came later and 
said he would have it taken care of after lunch.  My Attorney called him after 
lunch but, as usual, he was not around then.  He talked to the U.S.  Attorney 
Watson who said he didn't know about the bail and it would have to stay 
whereever it was.  He believed it was being held in Washington State where it 
was posted.  My attorney called the U.S. Attorney`s office in Seattle, 
Waashington and was tiold it had been sent to Oklahoma.  My attorney talked 
with the U.S.  Attorney in Seattle later and was told Hahn had told them that 
because it took so long for them to find me he didn't think they should 
release my bail.  There was never andy agreement to release my bail until 
Sept. 14th.  At this writing I still don't have it back.  Since recovering my 
property I have discovered that several items are missing, including typed 
notes and a tape\j\of conversations with Margaret Rashid and Tony Kimerey.  I 
spent more than ten years of my life serving my country as a soldier.  I 
risked my life in combat in support of our government.  I worked as a court 
officer a police officer and as an investigator for a prperiod of 15 years.  I 
have a college degree in criminal justice.  I believe in our system and have 
proven my commitment by my service.  I cannot tolerate nor abide the 
perversion and subvertion of our system, especially by those)like me)who have 
taken an oath to defend it.

This complaint deals with high)level government policy makers who have 
sacrificed our POW'S and MIA's, and alot more, to cover)up illigal and 
reprehensible drug trafficking activies.  It deals with federal Justice 
Department officials who have lied, silenced witnesses, discredited genuine 
patriots and heroes, obstructed justice and used their power to harass and 
intimidate honorable citizens.  I've heard of the alleged illigal drug 
trafficking, supported by the CIA, in Central America.  Until my recent 
experience I wouldn't have believed it.  You are the top law enforcement 
officer in the United States.  You have a duty to investigate, vigorously, the
charges raised in this complaint.  Today is the 200 anniversary of our
constitution.  The greatest threat to that sacred document is being mounted
today by the lairs, obstructors of justice and other slime who believe the
ends justify the means and "plausible deniability" is a defensible standard of
conduct in an open, democratic system.  The people and activites, complained
of herein, threatenour very system of laws.  Do yourself proud.  Deal with
these complaints vigorously.. The issue of illegal drug trafficking is now
before the publis.

When it becomes apparent to the public that our POW's and MIA's have been 
abandoned and our youth have been exposed to drugs to protect such an 
activity, the wrath of the people will be incredible.  It no longer works to
try to hide this activity, too many know of it.  The tactics that have been
used to produce the silence of people like me oon this issue, are
unjustifiable.  Restore my faith in my government.  Do your duty, as I have
sought to do mine.  And as those POW's and MIA's abandoned in Southeast Asia,
have done theirs.  

Sincerely, 

Lance Trimmer 
Suite 316, 600 Central Plaza 
Great FAlls, Montana 59401

Subscribed and Sworn to before me this day of Sept.  1987
(Linda Cooper) Notary Public for the State of Montana 

My commision expires : 4/1/89

cc: 

ATF, Washington, 
D.C ATF, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
U.S. Attorney William Price, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
U.S. Customs Service, Washington, D.C.
U.S. Customs Service, Blaine, Washington, D.C.  
U.S. Department of State, Washington, D.C.
DEA, Washington, D.C.  
Members of the United States Congress









   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       

DRUG STORY HARD TO BELIEVE

Since the earlier publication of evidence of US government officials 
trafficking in drugs in SE asia, evidence has been piling up in the Digest 
office.  There is so much of it, from widely diverse sources ranging from
Mother Jones and the Christic Institute on the left, to Reuters and US News
and World Report, to first)hand testimony from a warlord of the Golden
Triangle, that it seems that there must be a real fire somewhere under all
this smoke.  Since the evidence is massive and the trail of the players
twisted, let us attempt to summarize.  Opium and heroin have been imported
into the US from SE Asia in huge quantities by US and allied government
officials since the 1940s.

This activity became especially heavy from the 1960s forward.  A great deal of 
the money generated by this drug trade, particularly after it became monstrous
in the '60s and '70s, was apparently laundered through the Nugan)Hand Bank in
Australia.  Upon the failure of this bank some 7 years ago, and at the same
time as the alleged suicide of one of the partners, Frank Nugan (1980), it
became clear that CIA and US military officers were deeply involved in the
bank and its nefarious operations.  A full)blown investigation by the
Australian government produced a 4)volume report.  It showed that some $50
million in losses were suffered when the bank went down, but untold amounts of
illicit drug money were undoubtedly not accounted for at the time because the
owners of that money didn't want to draw attention to themselves.  Strangely
enough, the whole affair of the Nugan)Hand failure was hushed up by our
government and many bank records were shredded by former US officials.

Now to Central America.  Cocaine from this area has apparently been imported 
into the US in large quantities for years by officials of the US and allied 
nations.  Some of the funds from these drug sales have apparently supported
the Contra's in Central America, along with funds from arms sales to Iran.
Here's the mind)blower: The central players in these arms and drug deals seem
always to be the same people: Theodore Shackley, a former high CIA official,
Thomas Clines, always Shackley's assistant, Richard Secord, retired Air Force
major general, and shifting cast of support players.  With the exception of
Secord, these same people show up in the testimony of Gen. Khun Sa, the
recognized drug kingpin of the Golden Triangle (Thailand)Laos)Burma).

Khun Sa describes the sale of huge amounts of drugs to some of these US 
officials and even notes that the funds were run through Australian banks.  
Lt. Col.  "Bo" Gritz, who first exposed this story on a radio talkshow in 
southern California, has continued his campaign on talkshows throughout the
United States.  In almost every show, says Gritz, he will get one or more
calls from Vietnam vets who describe how they participated or knew of drugs
being shipped either under US auspices or at a minimum with a "wink and a nod" 
from officials on the scene.

We should note here that Gen. Khun Sa has offered to stop this drug traffic in 
his part of the world but says that for 15 years, he can get "no interest" 
from our government.  In the videotaped interview with Gritz, Khun Sa even 
agreed to provide security for the US and/or UN inspection teams if 
they\j\wanted to come in to verify his efforts.  Khun Sa's offer is connected 
to his request for help for his people in the form of agricultural 
instruction, etc.  His point is that if he stops the growing of opium, his 8 
million people will need help in replacing the income that crop is generating.

To date, his offer has stirred not one iota of interest in Washington.
Unbeknownst to Gritz, H. Ross Perot had been working on this same story since
some time in late 1986.  Perot took the evidence to Washington, presented it
to the Vice President, the FBI, and to the White House, and got no help
whatsoever.  He even received a call from Frank Carlucci, now head of the
National Security Council, telling him to "stop pursuing" Richard Armitage,
whom Gen Khun Sa named as a big buyer of drugs in Burma.

Armitage is now Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security.  
Former Chief of Special Operations for the US Air Force L.  Fletcher Prouty 
says many CIA officials knew all about the use of drugs to pay some troops in 
Burma during WW II.  One who knew was Sam Wilson who ended up as head of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA).  Prouty also states that this drug trade 
was the reason for the start of the Nugan)Hand Bank in Australia, and further 
states that Michael Hand (one of the partners in the bank) worked out of his 
office in the Pentagon before he went to Vietnam and Laos where he met the 
Nugan brothers.  Prouty, by the way, assisted Alfred McCoy in the preparation 
of his monumental book The Politics of Heroin in SouthEast Asia (Harper & Row, 
1972).  A lawsuit filed by the leftist Christic Institute alleges many of the 
above events, naming these and other players.  The Institute alludes to a 
"Secret Team" that was/is running many of the arms/drug deals.

Much of the outline of this informal organization (if that's what it is) is 
also fully covered in US News and World Report (8/10/87, p. 16), with only a 
casual mention of the drug trade in the last paragraph.  But at least it was
mentioned.  An article by the Wall Street Journal reporter Jonathan Kwitny
appears in the August)September issue of Mother Jones.  Both the reporter and
the magazine are leftist, to say the least.  However, Kwitny's recounting of
the Nugan)Hand Bank failure was accurate so far as we can tell.

Among the names mentioned by Kwitny are (brace yourself): Shackley, Clines, 
Secord, Eric von Marbod (another Pentagon official), 3)star US Gen. LeRoy 
Manor (former chief of staff for the entire US Pacific Command), Gen. Edwin 
Black (high)ranking intelligence officer and Assistant Army chief of staff for 
the Pacific), Gen. Earl Cocke, Jr. (former commander of the American Legion), 
William Colby (former CIA director), Adm. Earl "Buddy Yates, Michael Hand (CIA 
veteran), and numerous bit)part players.  Then there's the strange story of 
former CIA agent Edwin Wilson, currently serving a 55)year sentence in 
solitary confinement for arms dealing.  Wilson has consistently asserted that 
his own questionable activities were part of a larger pattern of corruption 
and subversion among high CIA and Pentagon officials.  According to Wilson, 5 
conspirators ) Shackley, Clines, Secord, von Marbod, and Wilson himself ) met 
secretly in 1978, setting up a partnership to run arms, using the power of 
these top bureaucrats.  Wilson himself put up $500,000 for the operation, and 
he says he has a tape recording of the whole transaction.  Not only did he 
lose his investment, he ended up in the dungeon."

When I saw that I was the only one among all our partners to be indicted and 
convicted, I realized that I was being buried for the rest of my life in a 
solitary cell so that my former partners could shut me up.  I was afraid to 
talk," he said.  To add to this mystery, it appears clear that the Mafia 
serves as the retail distribution for the drugs.  Richard Armitage, Santo 
Trafficante (Mafia chieftain, now deceased), Shackley, Daniel Arnold, and 
Jerry Daniels (said by Khun Sa to have taken over Armitage's drug duties) are 
listed by Khun Sa as handling the enormous drug trade from the Golden 
Triangle, and he says, they used Australian banks to launder the money.  Khun 
Sa also notes that Thailand's English)language newspaper Bangkok Post reported 
that CIA agents were using Australia as a transit base for the drug business 
and using banks in Australia for the funds.

Finally, in this strange line up of sources, it's of interest to note that the
US Communist Party newspapers, People's Daily World, and the communist
Guardian, have been playing up this story for months.  We can attribute this
interest in our "drug problem" by the Reds as an attempt to divert attention
from the fact that since 1962 it has been official Communist policy to use
drugs to help being down the United States.  Nicaragua, Cuba, Bulgaria, etc.,
have all been working from an edict issued by Nikita Khrushchev at a secret
Warsaw Pact meeting in Moscow in 1962.

It may be only coincidence that involvement by our government officials seemed 
to pick up steam at about the same time.  Several aspects of this story are 
appalling to us.  First, we are dismayed that we find material in far)left 
publications with which we agree.  But even a stopped clock is right twice a 
day.  Second, there is an enormous amount of corroborative material being sent 
to our office nearly every day.  It supports the conclusion that a formal or 
informal organization of high CIA and US military officers, some former, some 
present, exists which has for decades been a major ) if not the major ) 
importer of heroin and cocaine into the US.

Third, the same players show up nearly everywhere where drugs and arms are
involved.  The only place Gen. Secord's name has not appeared is in connection
with the Khun Sa story in Burma.  It's also of interest that much of this
activity occurred while Vice President George Bush was in charge of the CIA.
It's strange that Bush does not seem to be interested (based on the lack of
cooperation given Perot when he visited him) in stopping this drug business.
And Bush is "the top cop" appointed by President Reagan to handle this drug
problem.

The mere fact that the mass media has completely ignored this abundance of 
evidence is further indication of the probability that very high members of 
the Establishment are deeply involved.  Only CBS TV in the "West 57th Street" 
broadcasts have dealt with the Central American connection and that show ranks 
at the bottom in the ratings.  The Golden Triangle connection has yet to be 
looked into.  We were told by a Washington reporter for the Christian 
Broadcast Network (CBN) that one reason the major TV networks have not touched 
the Gritz story is that lawyers for Richard Armitage called each of them\j\and 
said: "If you run the story, we'll sue".  With the Westmoreland case still 
vividly imprinted on the minds of network executives, the threat has 
apparently worked.  We have heard that a major overseas network is planning a 
story sometime in the next 6 months.  If this story is correct in it's broad 
outline ) and there is strong evidence for this ) we are looking at the worst 
scandal in government corruption in US history.

There is simply no other way to describe it.  In brief, here is what appears
to be factual: The US government has outlawed various drugs since 1914 with
the explicit intent of driving up the price to make them more difficult to
obtain.  Then this same government has for decades actually participated in
the importation of these very same drugs! The Mafia has served as the retailer
for our government.  In the latter years of this decadent operation, drug
monies have allegedly been used to fund some Freedom Fighter operations,
particularly in Laos and Central America.  It's very possible that the
recipients of this dirty money didn't know of its origins.  It's even more
likely that huge amounts of money from these illicit operations stuck to the 
hands of the major players.  We also think it's possible, although we've seen 
little evidence to support it, that there is an involvement by the big 
international banks.

The closest we`ve come to proof is in the book The Underground Empire: Where 
Crime and Government Embrace, by James Mills (Doubleday, $22.95).  Perhaps the 
most discouraging aspect of this whole grimy situation is that there is so 
little interest among government officials and the mass media.  It seems that 
only a demand from the grass)roots, reaching some critical mass of mail, can 
stir an investigation into this dirty business and bring it to a halt.  Your 
congressman must hear from you. You must demand action. You must demand the 
major TV networks get on this story.  You must demand that your newspaper 
conduct its own investigation and print the results.  You, dear friend, hold 
the key.  You, by your actions, will determine whether this practice continues 
or is stopped.










   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       



THE DEATH IN ARIZONA OF THE KEMPER MARLEY MACHINE

I expected the sky to fall after my July article linking the activities of 
Charles Keating and General Singlaub.  Nothing happened.  The reaction to my 
September article exposing Terry Burke, former top DEA in Arizona as a 
possible key element in the illegal narcotics network in Arizona, however, was 
immediate and unmistakable.  Within days of my FAXing this story I was served 
with a court summons, a nasty death threat was left on my answering machine 
and my offices were entered, my files, book cases and furniture dumped and 
overturned.

The last few days there has been a 6 foot 6 inch Latino following myself and
an associate. He makes the top hit man for the Medellin cartel look like a
sissy.  Since Terry Burke, the former CIA station chief in Laos who
administered the Phoenix Assassination Program has been closely associated
with Theodore Shackley since 1962, this revelation coming in the wake of the
unsolved Buddhist murders must have sent shock waves far and wide.  Ted
Shackley was George Bush's number 2 man at CIA when Bush was CIA Director.
Among those in the know, Ted Shackley and an operative named Richard Armitage
are the weakest points in the armor of George Bush and the New World Order.

More significantly, I am tempted to speculate that this revelation, coupled 
with my suggestion of a probable heroin connection to the military style 
execution of the 9 Buddhist monks, lead to the panic arrest of five innocent 
Tucson kids for the murder of the monks.  Supposedly, on the basis of a tip 
received Sept. 3 from a patient in a mental hospital, the deputies of Maricopa 
County Sheriff, Tom Agnos, arrested and charged four hispanic and one black 
youth, all selected from the poorest neighborhoods of Tucson.  It was apparent 
from the start that this action was bogus.

First, law enforcement alleged that these youths stole a late model Bronco and 
a Blazer that were seen at the Temple the day of the crime.  These vehicles 
were never reported stolen! Where are these vehicles today? If these kids were 
in fact criminal elements, wouldn't they have driven these four wheeled all 
terrain vehicles across the border to Mexico where they would have been worth 
more than in the U.S.? They could have made a quick $15,000 doing this.  I 
visited the Temple.  It is more than obvious that there was nothing of value 
there.

Rapidly the case against the kids began disintegrating.  One suspect was 
working at a dog track during the murders and was video taped performing his 
duties.  He had to be released.  It soon became clear that there was no 
physical evidence linking the youths to the crime ))) only their confessions 
)))), confessions that the Dean of the Law School at ASU says can not be used 
in court because they were so obviously coerced.  It turns out that the 
deputies worked on the youths for 12 hours in separate rooms with no windows 
))) no food or water ))) in the midst of serious threats.

One youth was told that he would be "found in a lake with an anchor wrapped 
around his neck if he did not cooperate".  This precess took place not at
police headquarters but in separate rooms of a hotel.  The attorney for Dante
Parker, said to be the ringleader, has submitted a list of 25 witnesses that
say the suspect never left Tucson the night in question.

The Thai ambassador "just happened to be in Phoenix" for the arrests.  During 
one short sound byte he repeated three times that his being in Phoenix was 
just coincidence.  His praise for Arizona law enforcement sounded a bit too 
lavish for the circumstances.  All readers can be assured that the smiling 
Thai ambassador is no stranger to the politics of heroin in Southeast Asia.  
Equally as disingenuous was the statement of the Sheriff that there was no 
racism involved in the crime )))) (but only in the selection process of the 
scapegoats.)

When Lt. Col. James Bo Gritz returned to the Golden Triangle of Burma in 1987
to video tape the drug overlord, General Khun Sa, naming the names of the U.S.
officials who were the general's largest customers for heroin, he was startled
to find that a two lane highway had been constructed in the 5 months since he
was last there.  This highway, which went right to the general's front door,
was built by the Thai government using Rome plows left over from the Vietnam
war.  Coming out, as the Colonel went in, were 10 ton trucks, covered and
loaded, with the Thai Army insignia on the side.  There is only one product
that comes out of the Golden Triangle )))) heroin! It is a certainty that the
smiling Thai ambassador has an accounting of every truck.

The importance of the discovery of this heroin highway lies in the fact that 
what had trickled out on the backs of horses and mules now flows out in 10 ton 
trucks.  This highway, which is easily verifiable with satellite imaging, is 
to this day denied by our government.  When Col. Gritz's team lead Tom 
Jerrills of CBS 20\20 in to meet with Khun Sa, none of the trucks seen in the 
Colonel's video tapes were seen by American viewers.  There was even phoney 
footage of Jarrells riding on a mule and no shot of the Toyota pick)up that 
actually carried him there.

It so happens that the people associated with the Temple think there was a
narcotics connection.  Fong Miller lost both her mother and daughter in the
massacre.  When I told her that I thought the Phoenix\Bangkok heroin
connection factored into the slayings, her words were, "That is what we think
also." Absolutely no speculation to this effect has surfaced in newspapers
here.

Last year Phoenicians were shocked to find that the state government had 
committed to a $30 million toxic waste incinerator which was well under 
construction by the time anyone learned of it.  The selected management 
company, ENSCO, had an abysmal safety record everywhere they had existed.

In order to satisfy the public hearing requirement, a remote hearing site
located 40 miles outside Phoenix was selected.  The deputies of Tom Agnos were
issued stun guns and pictures of GREENPEACE toxics expert, Brad Angel, and
instructed to respond with "maximum force" to "environmental terrorism".

In order to further stifle public outcry, the high school auditorium was 
partitioned so that only 25% was useable.  Frictions developed when most of 
the 400 people who showed up were told to go home there was not enough room 
for them.  TV viewers that night were horrified at the spectacle of a 65 year 
old lady being repeatedly zapped by the deputies with the stun guns.  She was 
not even one of the environmentalists.  This incident coupled with the arrests 
of the innocent Tucson kids would insure a speedy trip down the toilet for 
Agnos and his top confederates in any other municipality in the nation.

The previous sheriff distinguished himself by placing an ad in the classified 
section of the ARIZONA REPUBLIC for truck drivers, then busting two
respondents for trucking cargos arranged by the sheriff.  He also had one of
his informers fly a plane load of marijuana in from Mexico so that he could
have members of the press available at the landing site to witness the arrest
of those meeting the plane.  He survived both incidents.  Hopefully Agnos will
not be as lucky.

The reader is probably asking how could such things happen.  For the answer to 
this we must do what Col. Fletcher Prouty advises, "Go back and examine the 
beginnings." Arizona is Kemper Marley territory.  Kemper Marley was the big 
man in Arizona.

In 1948 fifty two employees of Kemper Marley's Arizona liquor monopoly, UNITED
LIQUOR, went to prison on federal liquor violations, including Jim Hensley,
the father)in)law of Senator John McCain.  Hensley was the General Manager of
UNITED LIQUOR.  On the basis of this, some people might feel UNITED LIQUOR
could be described as organized crime.  The slick attorney who kept Marley out
of this trial and out of prison and sent McCain's father)in)law to prison in
his place was William Rendquist )))) currently the Chief Justice of the U.S.
Supreme Court!

It was the judgement of this court that Jim Hensley would be prohibited from 
working in the liquor industry from then on.  Of course such judgments meant 
nothing to Marley.  After Jim Hensley got out of prison, Marley arranged a 
BUDWIESSER distributorship for Hensley which is now in the hands of Senator 
John McCain and reported to be worth $200 million.

The best source for an introduction to the environment of total corruption
which exists in Arizona is THE ARIZONA PROJECT: HOW A TEAM OF INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTERS GOT REVENGE ON DEADLINE.  This expose was written by Michael
Wendland who was part of the group called INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS AND EDITORS
that came to Phoenix in the aftermath of the car bombing of the ARIZONA
REPUBLIC's investigative reporter, Don Bolles.  It was the conclusion of this
group that Marley, by far the wealthiest man in Arizona, was behind this
murder.

There are many reasons to believe that Don Bolles was not killed because he 
was a white knight.  When Bolles testified before the HOUSE ORGANIZED CRIME 
COMMITTEE, he required immunity.  Why? The best clue to his death lies in his 
last words ))) "Adamson, EMPRISE the mafia".  John Adamson was the hit man 
contracted by the establishment attorney, Neal Roberts.  EMPRISE was a dog 
track interest which had changed its name from SPORTSERVICE.  There existed 
the Maricopa County Superior Court Case # C)286651 SPORTSERVICE v. JARVIS, 
STEIGER which was available to anyone interested in the motive for this crime.  
Exhibits in this case allege that Bolles, who was visibly living beyond his 
means, was wheeling and dealing with the gangsters.  Today the EMPRISE 
CORPORATION continues to flourish in Arizona under the name DELAWARE NORTH.  
John McCain has been observed visiting the principals.

A good companion reader to the ARIZONA PROJECT is THE LAST RAMPAGE OF GARY 
TYSON.  Written by a journalism professor from the UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, this 
book documents how top authorities in Arizona let Gary Tyson escape from
prison after he succeeded in carrying out a contract hit on another inmate,
Tony Sera.  Sera was giving affidavits regarding the land fraud of Ned Warren.
It is the thesis of this book that this contract was given by establishment
attorney, Neal Roberts, who was described in the ARIZONA PROJECT as the murder
broker in the Bolles killing.

According to intelligence sources of the Phoenix police, who prepared a 
background profile of Kemper Marley the week following the Bolles murder, 
Marley was at one time directly connected to the remnants of the old Al Capone 
mob, operating the TRANSAMERICA WIRE SERVICE.  This betting service was 
originally established in 1941 for Capone's heirs by Gus Greenbaum.  Greenbaum 
was a Phoenix socialite seen at all the society balls in Phoenix, usually in 
the company of the Barry Goldwaters and Harry Rosenzweigs.  In 1958 Greenbaum 
and his wife were found dead in their bed )))) their throats cut.  This 
inaugurated a series of grisly gangland)style slayings.

When Marley died, July 1990, he owned 5 square miles of Carefree ))) the 
highest priced real estate in Arizona.  The smallest lot in this most
exclusive township is zoned for one acre.  By some coincidence the Tax
Accessors made the same mistake evaluating Marley's properties as he did on
Charlie Keating's properties.  This oversight was saving Marley a million
dollars a year.  Of course the official investigation showed no wrongdoing in
either case.

For the last 40 years Marley bankrolled Harry Rosenzweig who doled out 
Marley's great wealth to a slate of Republican candidates who were almost 
universally successful in obtaining high political office.  Marley was able to 
control the Democratic party as well.  Every congressman and every senator in 
Arizona currently owes his position to the Marley machine.

Dennis DeConcini was facing a tough reelection in 1990, seeing as how he was
nailed creaming off a cool $5 million with his family on an Arizona land deal
dependent on the Senator's inside senatorial knowledge.  The last thing in the
world the Republicans wanted was to loose DeConcini's seniority.  Before any
other Republicans could announce, the party hierarchy formally announced their
support for the weakest candidate that one could imagine.  The opponent, Keith
DeGreen, had ties to the Republican Party that were so weak he had not even
voted in the last 2 elections.

At one point Marley served as Chairman of the Board of the VALLEY NATIONAL 
BANK.  When Bugsy Siegel, on instructions from Meyer Lansky, built the 
FLAMINGO CLUB, Las Vegas's first casino, the money was borrowed from the 
VALLEY NATIONAL BANK.  Involvements in narcotics trafficking on the part of 
VALLEY NATIONAL BANK are hinted in the ARIZONA PROJECT.

Al Lizanetz, who served as Kemper's public relations man for 25 years, is one
of the richest sources for background on the liquor magnate.  The Bolles
murder was part of a package deal that was to include a hit on Lizanetz.
According to Lizanetz, the Marley machine placed the highest priority on
placing lawyers in all the key state and municipal positions.  Former Attorney
General Bob Corbin, who accepted a $55,000 campaign contribution from Charles
Keating in a race where he was unopposed, worked for Marley (in the insurance
industry) in the 50s as did the preceding 2 AGs.

Marley placed his people in the top positions of the Department of Public 
Safety.  The county prosecutor was also key to him.  Lizanetz claims that 
Marley recruited Eugene Pullium to come to Phoenix to start the ARIZONA 
REPUBLIC/PHOENIX GAZZETT, the monopoly newspaper here which has succeeded in 
covering up these matters.  Pullium then started the PHOENIX 40 a group of the 
largest business interests who virtually run the state.  Eugene Pullium is the 
grandfather of Dan Quayle.  The ARIZONA REPUBLIC/PHOENIX GAZZETT together with 
the INDIANAPOLIS STAR are reported to be worth $5 billion.  Lizanetz claims 
that Ned Warren, responsible for half a billion dollars of land fraud in 
Arizona, was another agent of Kemper Marley.

Marley's mentor was Sam Bronfman, the progenitor of the SEAGRAMS empire.  When 
Bronfman visited Marley in Arizona he came in the company of Al Capone.
Lizanetz claims that Jack Ruby, assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, was also on the
Bronfman payroll.

Perhaps by now readers are beginning to understand how a phenomena like 
Charles Keating could arise in such a political climate.  It is not necessary 
to mention how lavishly Keating paid off the local politicians.  DeConcini 
$72,000 ))) McCain $112,000 ))) a shopping center deal with McCain's wife that 
netted almost a half million in 6 months ))) a $200 million dollar unsecured 
load to DeConcini's campaign manager, Ron Ober.  This only scratches the 
surface.  All cannot be told in so short an article.  With this background let 
us examine more in more detail.

There is a certain law firm in Phoenix which includes as principals two former 
Arizona U.S. Attorneys, Melvin Mcdonald and Mike Hawkins.  One was appointed 
by Democrats and the other by Republicans )) giving them a lock on political 
leverage here.  Like Robert Peloquin, former head of the Organized Crime 
Strike Force of the Justice Department, they learned quickly that they could 
make 20 times as much money working for the criminals.  Melvin McDonald was 
chief council for Charles Keating.  Whenever anything of particularly bad odor 
needed to happen in Arizona one of these slimebags was called in.

A case in point was the scandal surrounding the sale of the BIG BOQUEUS RANCH 
to the Navajo nation.  This matter was so stinky it called for the diligence 
of Mike Hawkins and Melvin Mcdonald.  It so happened that back in Washington
D.C. Dennis DeConcini and John McCain were getting heat from their colleagues
about all the swindles of the indian lands.  As a matter of fact McCain and
DeConcini were leading the charge of these swindlers.  Keating's acquisition
of his Estrella property, in a round about way, involved a swindle of indian
lands.

The definition of a politician: Anyone, who, when being tared and feathered 
and ridden out of town on a rail can make it appear as if they are leading a 
parade.  In true fashion, McCain and DeConcini, got themselves appointed 
co)chairman of a senate investigative committee to delve into these crimes 
against the indians.  Enter McDonald and Hawkins.

The BIG BOQUEUS RANCH was purchased in the mourning by developers Bud Brown
and his partner for $19 million and sold that afternoon for $27 million to
Tribal Chief Peter McDonald (no relation) on behalf of the Navajo nation.  Bud
Brown and his partner made a quick $8 million.  In order to explore this
corruption, McCain and DeConcini granted immunity to Bud Brown and his partner
so that they could give testimony about the $10,000 and the BMW that they gave
as a bribe to the corrupt indian chief.  Meanwhile the ARIZONA REPUBLIC
repeatedly hammered the indian chief day after day while not mentioning Bud
Brown.  The indian chief was removed from office.  The Pulitzer Prize winning
journalist, Tom Fitzpatric, in a Feb. 15, 1989 NEW TIMES article called this
"the best real estate deal between white men and red men since the purchase of
Manhattan."

Another example is the Bartel Cocaine case.  Dr. William Bartel was caught 
with 81 pounds of cocaine after police observed him meeting with Stan Akers, 
Jr., a notorious cocaine broker.  Akers was the son of the former Arizona 
Speaker of the House of Representatives.  Here is an example of how the 
narcotics industry is politically protected in Arizona.  Akers was previously 
convicted of possession of 6 pounds of cocaine and sentenced to 5 years in 
prison.  After being sentenced, Akers told the D.A. he would testify about the 
unsolved drug murder of Greg Case which he had witnessed.  On Akers' testimony 
Paul Brookover was sent to prison and Akers walked free.  Knowledgeable people 
close to this case believe Akers ordered the hit.

The police found $3 million in bonds in the safe deposit box of Dr. Bartel.  
Bartel's father)in)law, Al Burke, came forward to claim that the $3 million 
was his and that his son)in)law was only keeping it safe for him.  Naturally
Burke retained former U.S. Attorney, Mike Hawkins, to represent him in this
matter and in a few days the U.S. Attorney's office "returned" the bonds.
Anyone having to establish their financial affairs for the IRS over a 20 year
period knows that this can not be done in a few days.

Like the saber toothed tiger, the Kemper Marley machine will die of its own 
success.  Having harnessed all of society's watch dogs on its tightly held 
leash there remains no restraint upon the unbounded greed of its members.  
Eventually it will be beyond the powers of the ARIZONA REPUBLIC to keep 
matters covered up.  The largess of Charles Keating pushed greed past the 
point of no return.  This accelerating stealing contest can have only one 
conclusion.  Some day soon the voters of Arizona will take possession of the 
government here.  They came very close to doing this with Governor Ev Mecham.

For the documentation upon which this article relies send a $10 check or money 
order payable to INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION, 6950 East Continental, Scottsdale,
Arizona 85257.




THE DEATH OF THE KEMPER MARLEY MACHINE

In 1948 fifty two employees of Kemper Marley's Arizona liquor monopoly, UNITED 
LIQUOR, went to prison on federal liquor violations, including Jim Hensley, 
the father)in)law of Senator John McCain.  Hensley was the general manager of 
UNITED LIQUOR.  On the basis of this some people might feel UNITED LIQUOR 
could be described as organized crime.  The slick attorney who kept Marley out 
of this trial and sent McCain's father)in)law to prison in his place was 
William Rendquist )))) currently the Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court!

It was the judgement of the court that Jim Hensley would be prohibited from 
working in the liquor industry ever again.  Of course such judgments meant
nothing to Marley.  When Jim Hensley got out of prison Marley arranged a
BUDWIESSER distributorship for Hensley which is now in the hands of John
McCain and reported to be worth $200 million.

The best source for an introduction to the environment of total corruption in 
Arizona is THE ARIZONA PROJECT: HOW A TEAM OF INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS GOT 
REVENGE ON DEADLINE, a book written by Michael Wendland.  Wendland was part of 
the group called INVESTIGATIVE REPORTERS AND EDITORS who came to Phoenix in 
the wake of the car bombing of the ARIZONA REPUBLIC's investigative reporter, 
Don Bolles.  It was the conclusion of this group that Marley, by far the 
wealthiest man in Arizona, was behind this murder.

There are many reasons to believe that Don Bolles was not killed because he 
was a white knight.  When Bolles testified before the HOUSE ORGANIZED CRIME
COMMITTEE he required immunity.  Why? The best clue to his death lies in his
last words ))) "Adamson, EMPRISE the mafia".  John Adamson was the hit man
arranged by the establishment attorney, Neal Roberts.  EMPRISE was a dog track 
interest which had changed its name from SPORTSERVICE.  There was a court case 
#xxxxxx SPORTSERVICE V JARVIS STIEGER available to anyone interested in the 
motive which contained all the plausible reasons for this hit.  Exhibits in 
this case aligadge that Bolles, who was visibly living beyond his means, was 
wheeling and dealing with the gangsters.

A good companion reader to this is THE LAST RAMPAGE OF GARY TYSON.  Written by 
a journalism professor from the UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA, this book documents how 
authorities here let Tyson escape from prison after he succeeded in carrying 
out a contract on another inmate, Tony Sera, who was giving affidavits 
regarding the land fraud of Ned Warren.  It is the thesis of this book that 
this contract was given by establishment attorney, Neal Roberts, who was 
described in the ARIZONA PROJECT as the murder broker in the Bolles killing.

According to intelligence sources of the Phoenix police, who prepared a 
background profile of Kemper Marley the week followingT h) Tthe Bolles murder,
Marley was at one time directly connected to the remnants of the old Al Capone
mob, operating the TRANSAMERICA WIRE SERVICE.  This betting service was
originally established in 1941 for Capone's heirs by Gus Greenbaum.  Greenbaum
was a Phoenix socialite seen at all the society balls in Phoenix, usually in
the company of the Barry Goldwaters and Harry Rosenzweigs.  In 1958 Greenbaum
and his wife were found dead in their bed )))) their throats cut.  This
inaugurated a series of grisly gangland)style slayings here.

When Marley died July 1990 his wealth was considered to be second only to Fife 
Symington who was a new comer to Arizona.  Marley owned 5 square miles of 
Carefree ))) the highest priced real estate in Arizona.  The smallest lot in 
this most exclusive township is zoned for one acre.  By some coincidence the 
Tax Accessors made the same mistakes evaluating Marley's properties as he did 
on Charlie Keating's properties.  This oversight was saving Marley a million 
dollars a year.  Of course the official investigation showed no wrongdoing in 
either case.

For the last 40 years Marley bankrolled Harry Rosenzweig who doled out
Marley's great wealth to a slate of Republican candidates who were almost
universally successful in obtaining high political office.  Marley was able to
control the Democratic party as well.  Every congressman and every senator in
Arizona currently owes his position to the Marley machine.  Dennis DeConcini
was facing a tough reelection in 1990 seeing as how he was nailed creaming off
a cool $5 million with his family on a land deal dependent on the Senator's
inside senatorial knowledge.  The last thing in the world the Republicans
wanted was to loose DeConcini's seniority.  Before any other Republicans could
announce the party hierarchy formally announced their support for the weakest
candidate that one could imagine.  Keith DeGreen had ties to the Republican
party that were so weak he had not even voted in the last 2 election ))) and
this was a senate race!

At one point Marley served as Chairman of the Board of the VALLEY NATIONAL 
BANK.  When Bugsy Siegel, on instructions from Meyer Lansky, built the 
FLAMINGO CLUB, Las Vegas's first casino, the money was borrowed from the 
VALLEY NATIONAL BANK (VNB).  Involvements in narcotics trafficking on the part 
of VNB are hinted in the ARIZONA PROJECT.

Al Lizanetz, who served as Kemper's public relations man for 20 years is one
of the richest sources for background on the liquor magnate.  The Bolles
murder was part of a package deal that was to include a hit on Lizanetz.
According to Lizanetz, the Marley machine placed the highest priority on
placing lawyers in all the key state and municipal positions.  Former Attorney
General Bob Corbin, who accepted a $55,000 campaign contribution from Charles
Keating in a race where he was unopposed, worked for Marley in the insurance
industry in the 50s.

Marley placed his people in the top positions of the DepartmentT h) Tof Public 
Safety.  The county prosecutor was also key to him.  Lizanetz claims that 
Marley recruited Eugene Pullium to come to Phoenix to start the ARIZONA 
REPUBLIC/PHOENIX GAZZETT, the monopoly newspaper here which has succeeded in 
covering up these matters.  Pullium then started the PHOENIX 40 a group of the 
largest business interests who virtually run the state.  Eugene Pullium is the 
grandfather of Dan Quayle.  Dan Quayle grew up in Paradise Valley next door to 
Robert Welsh, the founder of the JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY.  The ARIZONA 
REPUBLIC/PHOENIX together with the INDIANAPOLIS STAR are reported to be worth 
$5 billion.

Marley's mentor was Sam Braufman, the progenitor of the SEAGRAMS empire.  When 
Braufman visited Marley in Arizona he came in the company of Al Capone.  
Lizanetz claims that Jack Ruby, assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, was also on the 
Braufman payroll.

Perhaps by now readers are beginning to understand how a phenomena like
Charles Keating could arise in such a climate.  I don't need to mention how
lavishly Keating paid off the local politicians here.  DeConcini $72,000.
McCain $112,000.  A shopping center deal with McCain's wife that netted almost
a half million in 6 months.  A $200 million dollar unsecured load to
DeConcini's campaign manager, Ron Ober.  This only scratches the surface.  All
cannot be told is so short an article.  With this as background let me now
provide some detail.

There is a certain law firm which includes as principals two former Arizona 
U.S. Attorneys, Melvin Mcdonald and Mike Hawkins.  One man was appointed by 
Democrats and the other by Republicans giving them a lock on political 
leverage here.  Like Robert Peloquin, former head of the Organized Crime 
Strike Force of the Justice Department they learned that they could make 20 
times as much money working for the criminals.  Melvin McDonald was the chief 
council for Charles Keating.  When ever anything of particularly bad odor 
needs to happen one of these slimebags is called in.

A case in point was the scandal surrounding the sale of the BIG BOQUES RANCH 
to the Navajo nation.  This matter was so stinky it called for the diligence
of both Mike Hawkins and Melvin Mcdonald.  It so happened that back in
Washington D.C. Dennis DeConcini and John McCain were getting heat from their
colleagues about all the swindles of the indian lands.  As a matter of fact
McCain and DeConcini were leading the charge of the swindlers.  Keating's
acquisition of his Estrella property in a round about way involved a swindle
of indian lands.

The definition of a politician: Anyone who, when they are being tared and 
feathered and ridden out of town on a rail can make it appear as if they are 
leading a parade.  In true fashion, McCain and DeConcini, got themselves 
appointed co)chairman of a senate investigative committee to delve into these 
crimes against the indians.  Enter McDonald and Hawkins.  The big Boq ranch 
was purchased in the mourning by developers Bud Brown and his partnerT h) Tfor 
$19 million and sold that afternoon for $27 million to Peter McDonald (no 
relation to Melvin) on behalf of the Navajo nation.  Bud Brown and his partner 
made a quick $8 million.  In order to explore this corruption, McCain and 
DeConcini granted immunity to Bud Brown and his partner so that they could 
give testimony about the $10,000 and the BMW that gave as a bribe to the 
corrupt indian chief.  Meanwhile the ARIZONA REPUBLIC repeatedly hammered the 
indian chief day after day while not mentioning Bud Brown.  The Pulitzer Prize 
winning journalist, Tom Fitzpatric, in a Feb.  15, 1989 NEW TIMES article 
called this "the best real estate deal between white men and red men since the 
purchase of Manhattan."

Another example is the Bartel Cocaine case.  Dr. William Bartel was caught 
with 81 pounds of cocaine after police observed him meeting with Stan Akers,
Jr., a notorious cocaine broker here.  Akers was the son of the former Arizona
Speaker of the House of Representatives.  As an example of how the narcotics
industry is politically protected Akers was convicted of possession of 6
pounds of cocaine and sentenced to 5 years in prison.  After being sentenced,
Akers told the D.A. he would testify about an unsolved drug murder of Greg
Case which he had witnessed.  On Akers' testimony Paul Brookover was sent to
prison and Akers walked free.  Knowledgeable people close to this case believe 
Akers ordered the hit.

The police found $3 million in bonds in the safe deposit box of Dr. Bartel.  
Bartel's father)in)law, Al Burke, came forward to claim that the $3 million 
was his and that his son)in)law was only keeping it safe for him.  Naturally 
Burke retained former U.S. Attorney, Mike Hawkins to represent him in this 
matter and in a few days the U.S. Attorney's office "returned" the bonds.  
Anyone having to establish their financial affairs for the IRS over a 20 year 
period knows that this can not be done in a few days.

I spoke with Jim Lacey, Assistant U.S. Attorney responsible for all 
prosecutions of large narcotics cases in Arizona.  He admitted the
irregularities of the AMERICA WEST pilots case and the $300 million dollars
LAGUANA ARMY AIR FORCE BASE cocaine incident.  He expressed his regret that
the statute of limitations had run out.  Checking the dates I find that there
is still 8 weeks before these cases are dead.  If the U.S.  Attorney's office
will not respond I propose empaneling a Citizen's Investigative Committee.

A good example










   THE SILENT WAR

   We are engaged in a silent war.  Those waging this brutal conflict have
   not the decency to inform their victims ))) who include ourselves and
   almost everyone we know.  Their standard bearers include George Bush and
   David Rockefeller.  As the high priced professional liars in the mass
   media assure us all is well, the common people of the world are being
   crushed ))) like foot soldiers over run by a panzer division.

   And yet, the only real power of these perpetrators derives only from this
   force fed ignorance.  Apart from the power to keep us fighting each
   other, the Monopolists have no power.  If a critical mass of people can
   learn the information contained herein, and what is more important, the
   sources of this information, a global reign of terror will end.

   These articles are taken from my monthly column in MONETARY AND ECONOMIC
   REVIEW.  I am also the Director of Research for INTELLIGENCE CONNECTION a
   speakers agency that arranges events on university campuses for front
   line researchers, like those mentioned in these articles.  My name is
   Brian Quig.


   You can arrange speaking events with any of these legendary people by
   calling

   (602) 945-3858

   or writing                                                                 
                                                                              
   Intelligence Connection                                                    
   6950 E. Continental Blvd  Ste. 7000                                        
   Scottsdale AZ  85257                                                       

