              I N V I S I B L E   C O N T R A C T S
                         George Mercier

                       INSURANCE PROGRAMS
                         [Pages 478-479]

[Certain conventions have been used in converting INVISIBLE CONTRACTS to an
electronic medium. For an explanation of the conventions used, please download
the file INCONHLP.ZIP for further illumination. Other background information as
well is contained in INCONHLP.ZIP. It is advisable to EXIT this file right now
and read the contents of INCONHLP.ZIP before proceeding with your study of this
file.]

Through entry into the juristic highways of Interstate Commerce by
participation in an insurance policy program, as insurance is Interstate
Commerce, and the King retains a third party beneficiary status in all
Commercial transactions that full under his regulatory Commercial Jurisdiction
penumbra. In 1944, the Supreme Court decided a Case called UNITED STATES VS.
SOUTH-EASTERN UNDERWRITERS ASSOCIATION, [632]

[632]============================================================= 322 U.S. 533
(1944). =============================================================[632]

which held that insurance, all by itself, is Interstate Commerce; so if you
manage to participate in policies of insurance, you are participating in
Interstate Commerce; Federal commercial benefits are being accepted, and the
reciprocal QUID PRO QUO taxation is necessary. The fact that the insurance
company may be state chartered and licensed to do business in only one state,
and that the policy may have been negotiated, accepted, written, and entered
into in only one state are not relevant indicia as effecting limitations on
federal Jurisdictions; PERSONS paying premiums on policies of Insurance are
PERSONS playing in King's Commerce. A year later after UNITED STATES VS.
SOUTH-EASTERN UNDERWRITERS ASSOCIATION was ruled upon, the Congress enacted the
MCCARREN ACT, [633]

[633]============================================================= 59 Statutes
33; Title 15, Section 1011 to 1015.
=============================================================[633]

declaring that the:

	"... continued regulation and taxation by the several states of the
business of insurance is in the public interest, and that silence on the part
of Congress shall not be construed to impose any barrier to the regulation or
taxation of such business by the several states."

Yes, even the Congress of the United States knows that the application of
PRINCIPLES OF NATURE relating to silence that are incorporated into the
RATIFICATION DOCTRINE is even held to be binding on them in some circumstances.
This Congressional pronouncement, that silence in the context of a proposition
being made constitutes acceptance, applies to all appropriate factual settings,
and is held to apply to all PERSONS, even the Congress itself. But as for
taxation expectations, your acceptance of the benefits of an insurance program
is deemed as evidence of entry into Interstate Commerce, and hence such
participants are an object suitable for Federal taxation, regardless of any
political Status, and regardless of the presence or absence of any other
juristic contract.


