Newsgroups: alt.politics.org.nsa,talk.politics.crypto
From: grady@netcom.com (Grady Ward)
Subject: NSA employee's security manual
Organization: Moby lexical databases
 
Security Guidelines
 
This handbook is designed to introduce you to some of the basic
security principles and procedures with which all NSA employees must
comply. It highlights some of your security responsibilities, and
provides guidelines for answering questions you may be asked
concerning your association with this Agency.  Although you will be
busy during the forthcoming weeks learning your job, meeting
co-workers, and becoming accustomed to a new work environment, you
are urged to become familiar with the security information contained
in this handbook.  Please note that a listing of telephone numbers is
provided at the end of this handbook should you have any questions or
concerns.
 
Introduction
 
In joining NSA you have been given an opportunity to participate in
the activities of one of the most important intelligence
organizations of the United States Government.  At the same time, you
have also assumed a trust which carries with it a most important
individual responsibility--the safeguarding of sensitive information
vital to the security of our nation.
 
While it is impossible to estimate in actual dollars and cents the
value of the work being conducted by this Agency, the information to
which you will have access at NSA is without question critically
important to the defense of the United States.  Since this
information may be useful only if it is kept secret, it requires a
very special measure of protection.  The specific nature of this
protection is set forth in various Agency security regulations and
directives. The total NSA Security Program, however, extends beyond
these regulations.  It is based upon the concept that security begins
as a state of mind.  The program is designed to develop an
appreciation of the need to protect information vital to the national
defense, and to foster the development of a level of awareness which
will make security more than routine compliance with regulations.
 
At times, security practices and procedures cause personal
inconvenience.  They take time and effort and on occasion may make it
necessary for you to voluntarily forego some of your usual personal
perogatives.  But your compensation for the inconvenience is the
knowledge that the work you are accomplishing at NSA, within a
framework of sound security practices, contributes significantly to
the defense and continued security of the United States of America.
 
I extend to you my very best wishes as you enter upon your chosen
career or assignment with NSA.
 
Philip T. Pease
Director of Security
 
 
INITIAL SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES
 
Anonymity
 
Perhaps one of the first security practices with which new NSA
personnel should become acquainted is the practice of anonymity.  In
an open society such as ours, this practice is necessary because
information which is generally available to the public is available
also to hostile intelligence.  Therefore, the Agency mission is best
accomplished apart from public attention.  Basically, anonymity means
that NSA personnel are encouraged not to draw attention to themselves
nor to their association with this Agency.  NSA personnel are also
cautioned neither to confirm nor deny any specific questions about
NSA activities directed to them by individuals not affiliated with
the Agency.
 
The ramifications of the practice of anonymity are rather far
reaching, and its success depends on the cooperation of all Agency
personnel.  Described below you will find some examples of situations
that you may encounter concerning your employment and how you should
cope with them.  Beyond the situations cited, your judgement and
discretion will become the deciding factors in how you respond to
questions about your employment.
 
Answering Questions About Your Employment
 
Certainly, you may tell your family and friends that you are employed
at or assigned to the National Security Agency.  There is no valid reason
to deny them this information.  However, you may not disclose to them
any information concerning specific aspects of the Agency's mission,
activities, and organization.  You should also ask them not to
publicize your association with NSA.
 
Should strangers or casual acquaintances question you about your
place of employment, an appropriate reply would be that you work for
the Department of Defense.  If questioned further as to where you are
employed within the Department of Defense, you may reply, "NSA."
When you inform someone that you work for NSA (or the Department of
Defense) you may expect that the next question will be, "What do you
do?"  It is a good idea to anticipate this question and to formulate
an appropriate answer.  Do not act mysteriously about your
employment, as that would only succeed in drawing more attention to
yourself.
 
If you are employed as a secretary, engineer, computer scientist, or
in a clerical, administrative, technical, or other capacity
identifiable by a general title which in no way indicates how your
talents are being applied to the mission of the Agency, it is
suggested that you state this general title.  If you are employed as
a linguist, you may say that you are a linguist, if necessary.
However, you should not indicate the specific language(s) with which
you are involved.
 
The use of service specialty titles which tend to suggest or reveal
the nature of the Agency's mission  or specific aspects of their
work.  These professional titles, such as cryptanalyst, signals
collection officer, and intelligence research analyst, if given
verbatim to an outsider, would likely generate further questions
which may touch upon the classified aspects of your work. Therefore,
in conversation with outsiders, it is suggested that such job titles
be generalized.  For example, you might indicate that you are a
"research analyst."  You may not, however, discuss the specific
nature of your analytic work.
 
Answering Questions About Your Agency Training
 
During your career or assignment at NSA, there is a good chance that
you will receive some type of job-related training.  In many
instances the nature of the training is not classified.  However, in
some situations the specialized training you receive will relate
directly to sensitive Agency functions.  In such cases, the nature of
this training may not be discussed with persons outside of this
Agency.
 
If your training at the Agency includes language training, your
explanation for the source of your linguistic knowledge should be
that you obtained it while working for the Department of Defense.
 
You Should not draw undue attention to your language abilities, and
you may not discuss how you apply your language skill at the Agency.
 
If you are considering part-time employment which requires the use of
language or technical skills similar to those required for the
performance of your NSA assigned duties, you must report (in advance)
the anticipated part-time work through your Staff Security Officer
(SSO) to the Office of Security's Clearance Division (M55).
 
Verifying Your Employment
 
On occasion, personnel must provide information concerning their
employment to credit institutions in connection with various types of
applications for credit. In such situations you may state, if you are
a civilian employee, that you are employed by NSA and indicate your
pay grade or salary.  Once again, generalize your job title.  If any
further information is desired by persons or firms with whom you may
be dealing, instruct them to request such information by
correspondence addressed to:  Director of Civilian Personnel,
National Security Agency, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755-6000.
Military personnel should use their support group designator and
address when indicating their current assignment.
 
If you contemplate leaving NSA for employment elsewhere, you may be
required to submit a resume/job application, or to participate in
extensive employment interviews.  In such circumstances, you should
have your resume reviewed by the
Classification Advisory Officer (CAO) assigned to your organization.
Your CAO will ensure that any classified operational details of your
duties have been excluded and will provide you with an unclassified
job description.  Should you leave the Agency before preparing such a
resume, you may develop one and send it by registered mail to the
NSA/CSS Information Policy Division (Q43) for review. Remember, your
obligation to protect sensitive Agency information extends beyond
your employment at NSA.
 
The Agency And Public News Media
 
From time to time you may find that the agency is the topic of
reports or articles appearing in public news media--newspapers,
magazines, books, radio and TV.  The NSA/CSS Information Policy
Division (Q43) represents the Agency in matters involving the press
and other media.  This office serves at the Agency's official media
center and is the Director's liaison office for public relations,
both in the community and with other government agencies.  The
Information Policy Division must approve the release of all
information for and about NSA, its mission, activities, and
personnel.  In order to protect the aspects of Agency operations, NSA
personnel must refrain from either confirming or denying any
information concerning the Agency or its activities which may appear
in the public media.  If you are asked about the activities of NSA,
the best response is "no comment."  You should the notify Q43 of the
attempted inquiry.  For the most part, public references to NSA are
based upon educated guesses.  The Agency does not normally make a
practice of issuing public statements about its activities.
 
GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES
 
Espionage And Terrorism
 
During your security indoctrination and throughout your NSA career
you will become increasingly aware of the espionage and terrorist
threat to the United States.  Your vigilance is the best single
defense in protecting NSA information, operations, facilities and
people.  Any information that comes to your attention that suggests
to you the existence of, or potential for, espionage or terrorism
against the U.S. or its allies must be promptly reported by you to
the Office of Security.
 
There should be no doubt in your mind about the reality of the
threats.  You are now affiliated with the most sensitive agency in
government and are expected to exercise vigilance and common sense to
protect NSA against these threats.
 
Classification
 
Originators of correspondence, communications, equipment, or
documents within the Agency are responsible for ensuring that the
proper classification, downgrading information and, when appropriate,
proper caveat notations are assigned to such material.  (This
includes any handwritten notes which contain classified information).
The three levels of classification are Confidential, Secret and Top
Secret.  The NSA Classification Manual should be used as guidance in
determining proper classification.  If after review of this document
you need assistance, contact the Classification Advisory Officer
(CAO) assigned to your organization, or the Information Policy
Division (Q43).
 
Need-To-Know
 
Classified information is disseminated only on a strict
"need-to-know" basis. The "need-to-know" policy means that classified
information will be disseminated only to those individuals who, in
addition to possessing a proper clearance, have a requirement to know
this information in order to perform their official duties
(need-to-know).  No person is entitled to classified information
solely by virtue of office, position, rank, or security clearance.
 
All NSA personnel have the responsibility to assert the
"need-to-know" policy as part of their responsibility to protect
sensitive information. Determination of "need-to-know" is a
supervisory responsibility.  This means that if there is any doubt in
your mind as to an individual's "need-to-know," you should always
check with your supervisor before releasing any classified material
under your control.
 
For Official Use Only
 
Separate from classified information is information or material
marked "FOR
OFFICIAL USE ONLY" (such as this handbook).  This designation is used
to identify that official information or material which, although
unclassified, is exempt from the requirement for public disclosure of
information concerning government activities and which, for a
significant reason, should not be given general circulation.  Each
holder of "FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY" (FOUO) information or material is
authorized to disclose such information or material to persons in
other departments or agencies of the Executive and Judicial branches
when it is determined that the information or material is required to
carry our a government function.  The recipient must be advised that
the information or material is not to be disclosed to the general
public.  Material which bears the "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" caveat does
not come under the regulations governing the protection of classified
information.  The unauthorized disclosure of information marked "FOR
OFFICIAL USE ONLY" does not constitute an unauthorized disclosure of
classified defense information.  However, Department of Defense and
NSA regulations prohibit the unauthorized disclosure of information
designated "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY."  Appropriate administrative
action will be taken to determine responsibility and to apply
corrective and/or disciplinary measures in cases of unauthorized
disclosure of information which bears the "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY"
caveat.  Reasonable care must be exercised in limiting the
dissemination of "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" information.  While you may
take this handbook home for further study, remember that is does
contain "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY" information which should be
protected.
 
Prepublication Review
 
All NSA personnel (employees, military assignees, and contractors)
must submit for review any planned articles, books, speeches,
resumes, or public statements that may contain classified,
classifiable, NSA-derived, or unclassified protected information,
e.g., information relating to the organization, mission, functions,
or activities of NSA.  Your obligation to protect this sensitive
information is a lifetime one.  Even when you resign, retire, or
otherwise end your affiliation with NSA, you must submit this type of
material for prepublication review.  For additional details, contact
the Information Policy Division (Q43) for an explanation of
prepublication review procedures.
 
Personnel Security Responsibilities
 
Perhaps you an recall your initial impression upon entering an NSA
facility. Like most people, you probably noticed the elaborate
physical security safeguards--fences, concrete barriers, Security
Protective Officers, identification badges, etc.  While these
measures provide a substantial degree of protection for the
information housed within our buildings, they represent only a
portion of the overall Agency security program.  In fact, vast
amounts of information leave our facilities daily in the minds of NSA
personnel, and this is where our greatest vulnerability lies.
Experience has indicated that because of the vital information we
work with at NSA, Agency personnel may become potential targets for
hostile intelligence efforts.  Special safeguards are therefore
necessary to protect our personnel.
 
Accordingly, the Agency has an extensive personnel security program
which establishes internal policies and guidelines governing employee
conduct and activities.  These policies cover a variety of topics,
all of which are designed to protect both you and the sensitive
information you will gain through your work at NSA.
 
Association With Foreign Nationals
 
As a member of the U.S. Intelligence Community and by virtue of your
access to sensitive information, you are a potential target for
hostile intelligence activities carried out by or on behalf of
citizens of foreign countries.  A policy concerning association with
foreign nationals has been established by the Agency to minimize the
likelihood that its personnel might become subject to undue influence
or duress or targets of hostile activities through foreign
relationships.

As an NSA affiliate, you are prohibited from initiating or
maintaining associations (regardless of the nature and degree) with
citizens or officials of communist-controlled, or other countries
which pose a significant threat to the security of the United States
and its interests.  A comprehensive list of these designated
countries is available from your Staff Security Officer or the
Security Awareness Division.  Any contact with citizens of these
countries, no matter how brief or seemingly innocuous, must be
reported as soon as possible to your Staff Security Officer (SSO).
(Individuals designated as Staff Security Officers are assigned to
every organization; a listing of Staff Security Officers can be found
at the back of this handbook).
 
Additionally, close and continuing associations with any non-U.S.
citizens which are characterized by ties of kinship, obligation, or
affection are prohibited. A waiver to this policy may be granted only
under the most exceptional circumstances when there is a truly
compelling need for an individual's services or skills and the
security risk is negligible.
 
In particular, a waiver must be granted in advance of a marriage to
or cohabitation with a foreign national in order to retain one's
access to NSA information.  Accordingly, any intent to cohabitate
with or marry a non-U.S. citizen must be reported immediately to your
Staff Security Officer.  If a waiver is granted, future reassignments
both at headquarters and overseas may be affected.
 
The marriage or intended marriage of an immediate family member
(parents, siblings, children) to a foreign national must also be
reported through your SSO to the Clearance Division (M55).
 
Casual social associations with foreign nationals (other than those
of the designated countries mentioned above) which arise from normal
living and working arrangements in the community usually do not have
to be reported. During the course of these casual social
associations, you are encouraged to extend the usual social
amenities.  Do not act mysteriously or draw attention to yourself
(and possibly to NSA) by displaying an unusually wary attitude.
 
Naturally, your affiliation with the Agency and the nature of your
work should not be discussed.  Again, you should be careful not to
allow these associations to become close and continuing to the extent
that they are characterized by ties of kinship, obligation, or
affection.
 
If at any time you feel that a "casual" association is in any way
suspicious, you should report this to your Staff Security Officer
immediately.  Whenever any doubt exists as to whether or not a
situation should be reported or made a matter of record, you should
decided in favor of reporting it.  In this way, the situation can be
evaluated on its own merits, and you can be advised as to your future
course of action.
 
Correspondence With Foreign Nationals
 
NSA personnel are discouraged from initiating correspondence with
individuals who are citizens of foreign countries.  Correspondence
with citizens of communist-controlled or other designated countries
is prohibited.  Casual social correspondence, including the "penpal"
variety, with other foreign acquaintances is acceptable and need not
be reported.  If, however, this correspondence should escalate in its
frequency or nature, you should report that through your Staff
Security Officer to the Clearance Division (M55).
 
Embassy Visits
 
Since a significant percentage of all espionage activity is known to
be conducted through foreign embassies, consulates, etc., Agency
policy discourages visits to embassies, consulates or other official
establishments of a foreign government.  Each case, however, must be
judged on the circumstances involved.  Therefore, if you plan to
visit a foreign embassy for any reason (even to obtain a visa), you
must consult with, and obtain the prior approval of, your immediate
supervisor and the Security Awareness Division (M56).
 
Amateur Radio Activities
 
Amateur radio (ham radio) activities are known to be exploited by
hostile intelligence services to identify individuals with access to
classified
information; therefore, all licensed operators are expected to be
familiar with NSA/CSS Regulation 100-1, "Operation of Amateur Radio
Stations" (23 October 1986).  The specific limitations on contacts
with operators from communist and designated countries are of
particular importance.  If you are an amateur radio operator you
should advise the Security Awareness Division (M56) of your amateur
radio activities so that detailed guidance may be furnished to you.
 
Unofficial Foreign Travel
 
In order to further protect sensitive information from possible
compromise resulting from terrorism, coercion, interrogation or
capture of Agency personnel by hostile nations and/or terrorist
groups, the Agency has established certain policies and procedures
concerning unofficial foreign travel.
 
All Agency personnel (civilian employees, military assignees, and
contractors) who are planning unofficial foreign travel must have
that travel approved by submitting a proposed itinerary to the
Security Awareness Division (M56) at least 30 working days prior to
their planned departure from the United States. Your itinerary should
be submitted on Form K2579 (Unofficial Foreign Travel Request).  This
form provides space for noting the countries to be visited, mode of
travel, and dates of departure and return.  Your immediate supervisor
must sign this form to indicate whether or not your proposed travel
poses a risk to the sensitive information, activities, or projects of
which you may have knowledge due to your current assignment.
 
After your supervisor's assessment is made, this form should be
forwarded to the Security Awareness Director (M56).  Your itinerary
will then be reviewed in light of the existing situation in the
country or countries to be visited, and a decision for approval or
disapproval will be based on this assessment.  The purpose of this
policy is to limit the risk of travel to areas of the world where a
threat may exist to you and to your knowledge of classified Agency
activities.
 
In this context, travel to communist-controlled and other hazardous
activity areas is prohibited.  A listing of these hazardous activity
areas is prohibited.  A listing of these hazardous activity areas can
be found in Annex A of NSA/CSS Regulation No. 30-31, "Security
Requirements for Foreign Travel" (12 June 1987).  From time to time,
travel may also be prohibited to certain areas where the threat from
hostile intelligence services, terrorism, criminal activity or
insurgency poses an unacceptable risk to Agency employees and to the
sensitive information they possess.  Advance travel deposits made
without prior agency approval of the proposed travel may result in
financial losses by the employee should the travel be disapproved, so
it is important to obtain approval prior to committing yourself
financially.  Questions regarding which areas of the world currently
pose a threat should be directed to the Security Awareness Division
(M56).
 
Unofficial foreign travel to Canada, the Bahamas, Bermuda, and Mexico
does not require prior approval, however, this travel must still be
reported using Form K2579.  Travel to these areas may be reported
after the fact.
 
While you do not have to report your foreign travel once you have
ended your affiliation with the Agency, you should be aware that the
risk incurred in travelling to certain areas, from a personal safety
and/or counterintelligence standpoint, remains high.  The requirement
to protect the classified information to which you have had access is
a lifetime obligation.
 
Membership In Organizations
 
Within the United States there are numerous organizations with
memberships ranging from a few to tens of thousands.  While you may
certainly participate in the activities of any reputable
organization, membership in any international club or professional
organization/activity with foreign members should be reported through
your Staff Security Officer to the Clearance Division (M55). In most
cases there are no security concerns or threats to our employees or
affiliates.  However, the Office of Security needs the opportunity to
research
the organization and to assess any possible risk to you and the
information to which you have access.
 
In addition to exercising prudence in your choice of organizational
affiliations, you should endeavor to avoid participation in public
activities of a conspicuously controversial nature because such
activities could focus undesirable attention upon you and the Agency.
NSA employees may, however, participate in bona fide public affairs
such as local politics, so long as such activities do not violate the
provisions of the statutes and regulations which govern the political
activities of all federal employees.  Additional information may be
obtained from your Personnel Representative.
 
Changes In Marital Status/Cohabitation/Names
 
All personnel, either employed by or assigned to NSA, must advise the
Office of Security of any changes in their marital status (either
marriage or divorce), cohabitation arrangements, or legal name
changes.  Such changes should be reported by completing NSA Form
G1982 (Report of Marriage/Marital Status Change/Name Change), and
following the instructions printed on the form.
 
Use And Abuse Of Drugs
 
It is the policy of the National Security Agency to prevent and
eliminate the improper use of drugs by Agency employees and other
personnel associated with the Agency.  The term "drugs" includes all
controlled drugs or substances identified and listed in the
Controlled Substances Act of 1970, as amended, which includes but is
not limited to:  narcotics, depressants, stimulants, cocaine,
hallucinogens ad cannabis (marijuana, hashish, and hashish oil). The
use of illegal drugs or the abuse of prescription drugs by persons
employed by, assigned or detailed to the Agency may adversely affect
the national security; may have a serious damaging effect on the
safety and the safety of others; and may lead to criminal
prosecution.  Such use of drugs either within or outside Agency
controlled facilities is prohibited.
 
Physical Security Policies
 
The physical security program at NSA provides protection for
classified material and operations and ensures that only persons
authorized access to the Agency's spaces and classified material are
permitted such access.  This program is concerned not only with the
Agency's physical plant and facilities, but also with the internal
and external procedures for safeguarding the Agency's classified
material and activities.  Therefore, physical security safeguards
include Security Protective Officers, fences, concrete barriers,
access control points, identification badges, safes, and the
compartmentalization of physical spaces.  While any one of these
safeguards represents only a delay factor against attempts to gain
unauthorized access to NSA spaces and material, the total combination
of all these safeguards represents a formidable barrier against
physical penetration of NSA.  Working together with personnel
security policies, they provide "security in depth."
 
The physical security program depends on interlocking procedures.
The responsibility for carrying out many of these procedures rests
with the individual.  This means you, and every person employed by,
assign, or detailed to the Agency, must assume the responsibility for
protecting classified material.  Included in your responsibilities
are:  challenging visitors in operational areas; determining
"need-to-know;" limiting classified conversations to approved areas;
following established locking and checking procedures; properly using
the secure and non-secure telephone systems; correctly wrapping and
packaging classified data for transmittal; and placing classified
waste in burn bags.
 
The NSA Badge
 
Even before you enter an NSA facility, you have a constant reminder
of security--the NSA badge.  Every person who enters an NSA
installation is required to wear an authorized badge.  To enter most
NSA facilities your badge must be inserted into an Access Control
Terminal at a building entrance and you must enter your Personal
Identification Number (PIN) on the terminal keyboard. In the absence
of an Access Control Terminal, or when passing an internal
security checkpoint, the badge should be held up for viewing by a
Security Protective Officer.  The badge must be displayed at all
times while the individual remains within any NSA installation.
 
NSA Badges must be clipped to a beaded neck chain.  If necessary for
the safety of those working in the area of electrical equipment or
machinery, rubber tubing may be used to insulate the badge chain.
For those Agency personnel working in proximity to other machinery or
equipment, the clip may be used to attach the badge to the wearer's
clothing, but it must also remain attached to the chain.
 
After you leave an NSA installation, remove your badge from public
view, thus avoiding publicizing your NSA affiliation.  Your badge
should be kept in a safe place which is convenient enough to ensure
that you will be reminded to bring it with you to work.  A good rule
of thumb is to afford your badge the same protection you give your
wallet or your credit cards.  DO NOT write your Personal
Identification Number on your badge.
 
If you plan to be away from the Agency for a period of more than 30
days, your badge should be left at the main Visitor Control Center
which services your facility.
 
Should you lose your badge, you must report the facts and
circumstances immediately to the Security Operations Center (SOC)
(963-3371s/688-6911b) so that your badge PIN can be deactivated in
the Access Control Terminals.  In the event that you forget your
badge when reporting for duty, you may obtain a "non-retention"
Temporary Badge at the main Visitor Control Center which serves your
facility after a co-worker personally identifies your and your
clearance has been verified.
 
Your badge is to be used as identification only within NSA facilities
or other government installations where the NSA badge is recognized.
Your badge should never be used outside of the NSA or other
government facilities for the purpose of personal identification.
You should obtain a Department of Defense identification card from
the Civilian Welfare Fund (CWF) if you need to identify yourself as a
government employee when applying for "government discounts" offered
at various commercial establishments.
 
Your badge color indicates your particular affiliation with NSA and
your level of clearance.  Listed below are explanations of the badge
colors you are most likely to see:
 
        Green (*)       Fully cleared NSA employees and certain
military assignees.
 
        Orange (*)      (or Gold) Fully cleared representative of
other government agencies.
 
        Black (*)       Fully cleared contractors or consultants.
 
        Blue            Employees who are cleared to the SECRET level
while awaiting completion of their processing for full (TS/SI)
clearance.  These Limited Interim Clearance (LIC) employees are
restricted to certain activities while inside a secure area.
 
        Red             Clearance level is not specified, so assume
the holder is uncleared.
 
* - Fully cleared status means that the person has been cleared to
the Top Secret (TS) level and indoctrinated for Special Intelligence
(SI).
 
All badges with solid color backgrounds (permanent badges) are kept
by individuals until their NSA employment or assignment ends.
Striped badges ("non-retention" badges) are generally issued to
visitors and are returned to the Security Protective Officer upon
departure from an NSA facility.
 
Area Control
 
Within NSA installations there are generally two types of areas,
Administrative and Secure.  An Administrative Area is one in which
storage of classified information is not authorized, and in which
discussions of a classified nature are forbidden.  This type of area
would include the corridors, restrooms, cafeterias, visitor control
areas, credit union, barber shop, and drugstore.  Since uncleared,
non-NSA personnel are often present in these areas, all Agency
personnel must ensure that no classified information is
discussed in an Administrative Area.
 
Classified information being transported within Agency facilities
must be placed within envelopes, folders, briefcases, etc. to ensure
that its contents or classification markings are not disclosed to
unauthorized persons, or that materials are not inadvertently dropped
enroute.
 
The normal operational work spaces within an NSA facility are
designated Secure Areas.  These areas are approved for classified
discussions and for the storage of classified material.  Escorts must
be provided if it is necessary for uncleared personnel (repairmen,
etc.) to enter Secure Areas, an all personnel within the areas must
be made aware of the presence of uncleared individuals. All unknown,
unescorted visitors to Secure Areas should be immediately challenged
by the personnel within the area, regardless of the visitors'
clearance level (as indicated by their badge color).
 
The corridor doors of these areas must be locked with a deadbolt and
all classified information in the area must be properly secured after
normal working hours or whenever the area is unoccupied.  When
storing classified material, the most sensitive material must be
stored in the most secure containers.  Deadbolt keys for doors to
these areas must be returned to the key desk at the end of the
workday.
 
For further information regarding Secure Areas, consult the Physical
Security Division (M51) or your staff Security Officer.
 
Items Treated As Classified
 
For purposes of transportation, storage and destruction, there are
certain types of items which must be treated as classified even
though they may not contain classified information.  Such items
include carbon paper, vu-graphs, punched machine processing cards,
punched paper tape, magnetic tape, computer floppy disks, film, and
used typewriter ribbons.  This special treatment is necessary since a
visual examination does not readily reveal whether the items contain
classified information.
 
Prohibited Items
 
Because of the potential security or safety hazards, certain items
are prohibited under normal circumstances from being brought into or
removed from any NSA installation.  These items have been groped into
two general classes. Class I prohibited items are those which
constitute a threat to the safety and security of NSA/CSS personnel
and facilities.  Items in this category include:
 
        a.  Firearms and ammunition b.  Explosives, incendiary
substances, radioactive materials, highly volatile materials, or
other hazardous materials c.  Contraband or other illegal substances
d.  Personally owned photographic or electronic equipment including
microcomputers, reproduction or recording devices, televisions or
radios.
 
Prescribed electronic medical equipment is normally not prohibited,
but requires coordination with the Physical Security Division (M51)
prior to being brought into any NSA building.
 
Class II prohibited items are those owned by the government or
contractors which constitute a threat to physical, technical, or
TEMPEST security. Approval by designated organizational officials is
required before these items can be brought into or removed from NSA
facilities.  Examples are:
 
        a.  Transmitting and receiving equipment b.  Recording
equipment and media c.  Telephone equipment and attachments d.
Computing devices and terminals e.  Photographic equipment and film
 
A more detailed listing of examples of Prohibited Items may be
obtained from your Staff Security Officer or the Physical Security
Division (M51).
 
Additionally, you may realize that other seemingly innocuous items
are also restricted and should not be brought into any NSA facility.
Some of these items pose a technical threat; others must be treated
as restricted since a visual inspection does not readily reveal
whether they are classified.  These items include:
 
        a.  Negatives from processed film; slides; vu-graphs b.
Magnetic media such as floppy disks, cassette tapes, and VCR
            videotapes c.  Remote control devices for telephone
answering machines d.  Pagers
 
Exit Inspection
 
As you depart NSA facilities, you will note another physical security
safeguard--the inspection of the materials you are carrying.  This
inspection of your materials, conducted by Security Protective
Officers, is designed to preclude the inadvertent removal of
classified material.  It is limited to any articles that you are
carrying out of the facility and may include letters, briefcases,
newspapers, notebooks, magazines, gym bags, and other such items.
Although this practice may involve some inconvenience, it is
conducted in your best interest, as well as being a sound security
practice.  The inconvenience can be considerably reduced if you keep
to a minimum the number of personal articles that you remove from the
Agency.
 
Removal Of Material From NSA Spaces
 
The Agency maintains strict controls regarding the removal of
material from its installations, particularly in the case of
classified material.
 
Only under a very limited and official circumstances classified
material be removed from Agency spaces.  When deemed necessary,
specific authorization is required to permit an individual to hand
carry classified material out of an NSA building to another Secure
Area.  Depending on the material and circumstances involved, there
are several ways to accomplish this.
 
A Courier Badge authorizes the wearer, for official purposes, to
transport classified material, magnetic media, or Class II prohibited
items between NSA facilities.  These badges, which are strictly
controlled, are made available by the Physical Security Division
(M51) only to those offices which have specific requirements
justifying their use.
 
An Annual Security Pass may be issued to individuals whose official
duties require that they transport printed classified materials,
information storage media, or Class II prohibited items to secure
locations within the local area. Materials carried by an individual
who displays this pass are subject to spot inspection by Security
Protective Officers or other personnel from the Office of Security.
It is not permissible to use an Annual Security Pass for personal
convenience to circumvent inspection of your personal property by
perimeter Security Protective Officers.
 
If you do not have access to a Courier Badge and you have not been
issued an Annual Security Pass, you may obtain a One-Time Security
Pass to remove classified materials/magnetic media or admit or remove
prohibited items from an NSA installation.  These passes may be
obtained from designated personnel in your work element who have been
given authority to issue them.  The issuing official must also
contact the Security Operations Center (SOC) to obtain approval for
the admission or removal of a Class I prohibited item.
 
When there is an official need to remove government property which is
not magnetic media, or a prohibited or classified item, a One-Time
Property Pass is used.  This type of pass (which is not a Security
Pass) may be obtained from your element custodial property officer.
A Property Pass is also to be used when an individual is removing
personal property which might be reasonably be mistaken for
unclassified Government property.  This pass is surrendered to the
Security Protective Officer at the post where the material is being
removed. Use of this pass does not preclude inspection of the item at
the perimeter control point by the Security Protective Officer or
Security professionals to ensure that the pass is being used
correctly.
 
External Protection Of Classified Information
 
On those occasions when an individual must personally transport
classified material between locations outside of NSA facilities, the
individual who is acting as the courier must ensure that the material
receives adequate protection. Protective measures must include double
wrapping and packaging of classified information, keeping the
material under constant control, ensuring the presence of a second
appropriately cleared person when necessary, and
delivering the material to authorized persons only.  If you are
designated as a courier outside the local area, contact the Security
Awareness Division (M56) for your courier briefing.
 
Even more basic than these procedures is the individual security
responsibility to confine classified conversations to secure areas.
Your home, car pool, and public places are not authorized areas to
conduct classified discussions--even if everyone involved in he
discussion possesses a proper clearance and "need-to-know."  The
possibility that a conversation could be overheard by unauthorized
persons dictates the need to guard against classified discussions in
non-secure areas.
 
Classified information acquired during the course of your career or
assignment to NSA may not be mentioned directly, indirectly, or by
suggestion in personal diaries, records, or memoirs.
 
Reporting Loss Or Disclosure Of Classified Information
 
The extraordinary sensitivity of the NSA mission requires the prompt
reporting of any known, suspected, or possible unauthorized
disclosure of classified information, or the discovery that
classified information may be lost, or is not being afforded proper
protection.  Any information coming to your attention concerning the
loss or unauthorized disclosure of classified information should be
reported immediately to your supervisor, your Staff Security Officer,
or the Security Operations Center (SOC).
 
Use Of Secure And Non-Secure Telephones
 
Two separate telephone systems have been installed in NSA facilities
for use in the conduct of official Agency business:  the secure
telephone system (gray telephone) and the outside, non-secure
telephone system (black telephone).  All NSA personnel must ensure
that use of either telephone system does not jeopardize the security
of classified information.
 
The secure telephone system is authorized for discussion of
classified information.  Personnel receiving calls on the secure
telephone may assume that the caller is authorized to use the system.
However, you must ensure that the caller has a "need-to-know" the
information you will be discussing.
 
The outside telephone system is only authorized for unclassified
official Agency business calls.  The discussion of classified
information is not permitted on this system.  Do not attempt to use
"double-talk" in order to discuss classified information over the
non-secure telephone system.
 
In order to guard against the inadvertent transmission of classified
information over a non-secure telephone, and individual using the
black telephone in an area where classified activities are being
conducted must caution other personnel in the area that the
non-secure telephone is in use. Likewise, you should avoid using the
non-secure telephone in the vicinity of a secure telephone which is
also in use.
 
HELPFUL INFORMATION
 
Security Resources
 
In the fulfillment of your security responsibilities, you should be
aware that there are many resources available to assist you.  If you
have any questions or concerns regarding security at NSA or your
individual security responsibilities, your supervisor should be
consulted.  Additionally, Staff Security Officers are appointed to
the designated Agency elements to assist these organizations in
carrying out their security responsibilities.  There is a Staff
Security Officer assigned to each organization; their phone numbers
are listed at the back of this handbook.  Staff Security Officers
also provide guidance to and monitor the activities of Security
Coordinators and Advisors (individuals who, in addition to their
operational duties within their respective elements, assist element
supervisors or managers in discharging security responsibilities).
 
Within the Office of Security, the Physical Security Division (M51)
will offer you assistance in matters such as access control, security
passes, clearance verification, combination locks, keys,
identification badges, technical security, and the Security
Protective Force.  The Security Awareness Division (M56) provides
security guidance and briefings regarding unofficial foreign
travel, couriers, special access, TDY/PCS, and amateur radio
activities.  The Industrial and Field Security Division (M52) is
available to provide security guidance concerning NSA contractor and
field site matters.
 
The Security Operations Center (SOC) is operated by two Security Duty
Officers (SDOs), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  The SDO,
representing the Office of Security, provides a complete range of
security services to include direct communications with fire and
rescue personnel for all Agency area facilities. The SDO is available
to handle any physical or personnel problems that may arise, and if
necessary, can direct your to the appropriate security office that
can assist you.  After normal business hours, weekends, and holidays,
the SOC is the focal point for all security matters for all Agency
personnel and facilities (to include Agency field sites and
contractors).  The SOC is located in Room 2A0120, OPS 2A building and
the phone numbers are 688-6911(b), 963-3371(s).
 
However, keep in mind that you may contact any individual or any
division within the Office of Security directly.  Do not hesitate to
report any information which may affect the security of the Agency's
mission, information, facilities or personnel.
 
Security-Related Services
 
In addition to Office of Security resources, there are a number of
professional, security-related services available for assistance in
answering your questions or providing the services which you require.
 
The Installations and Logistics Organization (L) maintains the system
for the collection and destruction of classified waste, and is also
responsible for the movement and scheduling of material via NSA
couriers and the Defense Courier Service (DCS).  Additionally, L
monitors the proper addressing, marking, and packaging of classified
material being transmitted outside of NSA; maintains records
pertaining to receipt and transmission of controlled mail; and issues
property passes for the removal of unclassified property.
 
The NSA Office of Medical Services (M7) has a staff of physicians,
clinical psychologists and an alcoholism counselor.  All are well
trained to help individuals help themselves in dealing with their
problems.  Counseling services, with referrals to private mental
health professionals when appropriate, are all available to NSA
personnel.  Appointments can be obtained by contacting M7 directly.
When an individual refers himself/herself, the information discussed
in the counseling sessions is regarded as privileged medical
information and is retained exclusively in M7 unless it pertains to
the national security.
 
Counselling interviews are conducted by the Office of Civilian
Personnel (M3) with any civilian employee regarding both on and
off-the-job problems.  M3 is also available to assist all personnel
with the personal problems seriously affecting themselves or members
of their families.  In cases of serious physical or emotional
illness, injury, hospitalization, or other personal emergencies, M3
informs concerned Agency elements and maintains liaison with family
members in order to provide possible assistance.  Similar counselling
services are available to military assignees through Military
Personnel (M2).
 
GUIDE TO SECURITY
 
M51 PHYSICAL SECURITY 963-6651s/688-8293b (FMHQ) 968-8101s/859-6411b
(FANX)
 
CONFIRM and badges              Prohibited Items
(963-6611s/688-7411b) Locks, keys, safes and alarms   SOC
(963-3371s/688-6911b) Security/vehicle passes         NSA facility
protection and compliance Visitor Control Inspections Red/blue seal
areas             New Construction Pass Clearances
(963-4780s/688-6759b)
 
M52 INDUSTRIAL AND FIELD SECURITY 982-7918s/859-6255b
 
Security at contractor field site facilities Verification of
classified mailing addresses for contractor facilities
 
M53 INVESTIGATIONS 982-7914s/859-6464b
 
Personnel Interview Program (PIP)       Reinvestigations Military
Interview Program (MIP)        Special investigations
 
M54 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE 982-7832s/859-6424b
 
Security counterintelligence analysis   Security compromises
M55 CLEARANCES 982-7900s/859-4747b
 
Privacy Act Officer (For review of security files)      Continued SCI access
Contractor/applicant processing                         Military access
 
M56 SECURITY AWARENESS 963-3273s/688-6535b
 
Security indoctrinations/debriefings            Embassy visits
Associations with foreign nationals             Briefings (foreign travel,
Security Week                                     ham radio, courier,
Security posters, brochures, etc.                 LIC, PCS, TDY,
                                                  special access, etc.)
Foreign travel approval
Military contractor orientation
Special Access Office (963-5466s/688-6353b)
 
M57 POLYGRAPH 982-7844s/859-6363b
 
Polygraph interviews
 
M509 MANAGEMENT AND POLICY STAFF 982-7885s/859-6350b
 
STAFF SECURITY OFFICERS (SSOs)
 
Element                 Room            Secure/Non-Secure
A                       2A0852B         963-4650/688-7044
B                       3W099           963-4559/688-7141
D/Q/J/N/U               2B8066G         963-4496/688-6614
E/M                     D3B17           968-8050/859-6669
G                       9A195           963-5033/688-7902
K                       2B5136          963-1978/688-5052
L                       SAB4            977-7230/688-6194
P                       2W091           963-5302/688-7303
R                       B6B710          968-4073/859-4736
S/V/Y/C/X               C2A55           972-2144/688-7549
T                       2B5040          963-4543/688-7364
W                       1C181           963-5970/688-7061
 
GUIDE TO SECURITY-RELATED SERVICES
 
Agency Anonymity                         968-8251/859-4381
Alcohol Rehabilitation Program          963-5420/688-7312
Cipher Lock Repair                      963-1221/688-7119
Courier Schedules (local)               977-7197/688-7403
Defense Courier Service                 977-7117/688-7826
Disposal of Classified Waste
        - Paper only                    972-2150/688-6593
        - Plastics, Metal, Film, etc    963-4103/688-7062
Locksmith                               963-3585/688-7233
Mail Dissemination and Packaging        977-7117/688-7826
Medical Center (Fort Meade)             963-5429/688-7263
        (FANX)                          968-8960/859-6667
        (Airport Square)                982-7800/859-6155
NSA/CSS Information Policy Division     963-5825/688-6527
Personnel Assistance
        - Civilian                      982-7835/859-6577
        - Air Force                     963-3239/688-7980
        - Army                          963-3739/688-6393
        - Navy                          963-3439/688-7325
Property Passes (unclassified material) 977-7263/688-7800
Psychological Services                  963-5429/688-7311
 
FREQUENTLY USED ACRONYMS/DESIGNATORS
 
ARFCOS  Armed Forces Courier Service (now known as DCS)
AWOL    Absent Without Leave
CAO     Classification Advisory Officer
COB     Close of Business
CWF     Civilian Welfare Fund
DCS     Defense Courier Service (formerly known as ARFCOS)
DoD     Department of Defense
EOD     Enter on Duty
FOUO    For Official Use Only
M2      Office of Military Personnel
M3      Office of Civilian Personnel
M5      Office of Security
M7      Office of Medical Services
NCS     National Cryptologic School
PCS     Permanent Change of Station
PIN     Personal Identification Number
Q43     Information Policy Division
SDO     Security Duty Officer
SOC     Security Operations Center
SPO     Security Protective Officer
SSO     Staff Security Officer
TDY     Temporary Duty
UFT     Unofficial Foreign Travel
 
A FINAL NOTE
 
The information you have just read is designed to serve as a guide to assist
you in the conduct of your security responsibilities.  However, it by no means
describes the extent of your obligation to protect information vital to the
defense of our nation.  Your knowledge of specific security regulations is part
of a continuing process of education and experience.  This handbook is designed
to provide the foundation of this knowledge and serve as a guide to the
development of an attitude of security awareness.
 
In the final analysis, security is an individual responsibility.  As a
participant in the activities of the National Security Agency organization, you
are urged to be always mindful of the importance of the work being accomplished
by NSA and of the unique sensitivity of the Agency's operations.
