Jeff Walker #64 @7317
Wed Jun 26 01:17:31 1991
þ P_GEN                                                                #468
Dt: 20-May-91 13:30
By: Mike Keithly
To: All
Re: Letter
                                                            #501 ->
I just recieved this in the mail today, from who i dont know but here it is in
it's entirety.

             THIS INFORMATION COULD SAVE YOUR LIFE AND FREEDOM
         THE COMING "OFFICIAL" ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE ALIEN PRESENCE ON EARTH
    WHY "STAR WARS", THE HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE,THE SUDDEN FALL OF COMMUNISM?
______________________________________________________________________________

What is going on?  Something very sinister is going on.  Polls reveal that
over 90% of the americans people believe in UFO's and 95% of these people
believe the government is keeping this knowledge from the public.  But Why?
Are they afraid the people  will panic if an "Official" announcement were
made? Hardly. Such an announcement would create interest and excitement and
many questions, particularly by the churches, but do not panic.  Why then the
continued cover- up?

There is overwhelming evidence in the past several years from "Whistle
Blowers" retired military officers who have finally said, "Enough is enough!
It's time the government told the people the truth!" These officers, such as
Navy Intelligence officer, William Cooper, Major John Lear (whose father
founded the Lear Jet Corp.) and Air Force officer William English, to name but
a few, have all discovered the truth, and at the risk of their very lives, are
trying to alert YOU to the secrets behind the UFO's and the Alien Presence on
this earth. These people worked on the secret projects, had access to
'classified' Top Secret documents , had seen with there own eyes 'captured'
aliens, or extreterrestrial entities, UFO's and the incredible technology they
brought with them.

Sightings of UFO's have been reported throughout history, and biblical and
historic references to "Flaming Chariots" huge flying 'birds' and odd looking
beings predate our history by thousands of years.  In the 1940's several alien
spacecraft were recovered by the U.S. and other countries, along with a few
dead aliens and one live one they named EBE (a name suggested by Dr.Vannever
Bush and was short for Extraterrestrail Biolgical Entity).
In 1953 astronomers discoverd large objects in space which were moving toward
earth.  At first they believed they were asteroids, but later evidence proved
the objects could only be spaceships.  Project Sigma and Project Plato
intercepted alien radio communication and using the computer binary language,
was able to arrange a landing that resulted in face-to-face contact with alien
beings from another planet.  Meanwhile, a race of human-looking aliens
contacted the U.S. Government, warning us that the aliens orbiting the equator
were hostile beings from Orion.  These human-type aliens demanded we dismantle
and destroy our nuclear weapons, that we were on a path of self-destruction
and we must stop killing each other, stop polluting the earth, stop raping the
earths natural resources and learn to live in harmony with one another.
President Eisenhower rejected these demands.


  Later in 1954 the race of aliens, known as Greys, from Zeta Reticuli area in
space, who had been orbiting the equator, landed at Holloman Air Force base.
they stated their planet was dying and needed quarters on earth to conduct
genetic experiments theat might allow their race to survive; this in exchange
for certain technology.  President Eisenhower  met with the aliens and a
formal treaty was signed.  The treaty stated the aliens would not interfere in
our affairs and we would not interfere in theirs.  We would keep their
presence on earth secret; they would furnish us with advanced technology. They
could abduct humans on a limited basis for the purpose of medical examination
and monitoring, with the stipulation that the humans would not be harmed,
would be returned to their point of abduction, that the humans have no memory
of the event.  It was also agreed the alien bases would be constructed
underground, beneath Indian reservations in the 4 corners area of Utah, New
Mexico, Arizona and Colorado.  Another was to be constructed in Nevada in the
area known as S-4, about 7 miles south of area 51, known as 'Dreamland'.  A
multi-billion dollar secret fund was organized and kept by the Military Office
of the White House, supposedly to build secret underground sites for the
President and the staff in case of military attacks.

(Ommission in post)...concluded FBI director J. Edgar Hoover and six leaders of
the 'Council on Foreign Relations, known as the 'Wise Men' and later others
from the Trilateral Commision.  George Bush, Gordon Dean, and Brzezinski were
among them.

A major finding of the commision was the aliens were using humans and animals
for a source on glandular secretions, enzymes, hormonal secretions, blood and
in horrible genetic experiments.  The aliens explained these actions as
necessary for their survival, that if their genetic structure were not
improved, their race would cease to exist.

The ruling powers decided that one means of funding the alien project was to
corner the illegal drug market.  A young ambitious member of the Council on
Foreign Relations was approached.  His name is George Bush who at the time was
preident and CEO of Zapata Oil Co. based in Texas.  Zapata Oil was
experimenting with offshore oil drilling and it was arranged that the drugs
could be shipped from South America to the offshore platforms by fishing
boats, then transferred to the U.S. shore by normal transportation, thus
avoiding search by customs agents.  The plan worked better than anyone
expected, and today the CIA controls all the world's illegal drug markets. One
should remember, it was George Bush who first started selling drugs to our
children. The drug money was used to finance the deep underground alien bases.

Conclusions: the Bilderburgers, the Council on Foreign Relations and the
Trilateral Commision are the SECRET GOVERNMENT and rule this nation through
MJ-12 and the study group known as the Jason Society.
