

Skolnick COMMENTARY #003
========================

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi. Sherman Skolnik, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

The mass media cannot tell the truth on key issues. Why? Well, in 
part because of the financial hangups. Also because they are the 
propaganda horn of the ruling families, who cannot level with the 
American worker. So, you are not told the story behind the story.

Examples:

1) On the future of the North American Free Trade Agreement 
[NAFTA] hangs the U.S. banking system. Large, money-center banks 
have loaned Mexico billions of dollars. Will they be able to pay 
back? (Such as Bank America, once owned principally by the 
Vatican and the Rothschilds, and large owners now being the 
Yakasa [sp?], the Japanese mafia.) Also loaning big to Mexico 
have been Chase Manhattan and Citicorp, both owned by the 
Rockefellers, *and* Chicago's Continental Bank, owned by a 
combination of the Vatican, the British royals and, since 1984, 
by the Yakasa. (Note: Financially interlocked with Continental 
Bank are multi, multi-millionaire judges on Chicago's Federal 
Court of Appeals, including judge Xxxxxx Xxxxxxxx, a man of trust 
for the Pope, and judge Xxxxxxx Xxxxxxx head of a trust for the 
commodity gambling cartel.)

To preserve profits, big business needs cheap labor.

2) What is behind the strange death of White House aide Vincent 
Foster? German authorities are investigating a ring of assassins 
who reportedly murdered Foster. The autopsy has to be doctored up 
to conceal 2 bullet holes in the back of Foster's head. The press 
says he was, uh.... a suicide. *Oh, yeah?*

As to the motives, Foster and his former law partner, first lady 
Hillary, were being scrutinized by the Federal Reserve -- no 
angels themselves. As part of the highly corrupt Rose [sp?] law 
firm of Little Rock, they are accused of money laundering work in 
the Mideast and Asia. Foster had an appointment with the 
President. He never went to it. Sources contend Foster knew about 
an earth-shaking situation involving the Mideast and previous 
presidents, like Bush. Supposedly, Clinton did not know, *but* 
once informed by Foster, "Sludge Willy" would have had to take 
action or be impeached. You can see why Foster was "suicided."

Those on the cutting edge of White House information realize 
Clinton has more "skeletons" than George Bush *and* Clinton's 
scandals overlap those of Bush.

3) The story behind the dope business is squelched. The ultra- 
rich profit from the dope traffic through money-center banks. The 
book *The Underground Empire* by Mills [C. Wright Mills (?)] 
documents how the dope enforcement authorities and the espionage 
agencies are the key players in promoting the dope business.

4) The U.S. military is using Soviet helicopters, such as at Air 
Force bases. Uh, they claim it is just for "military exercises." 
*Oh, yeah?*

In case of a financial emergency in America, will Russian 
mercenary troops be used to round up American political activists 
and drag them off to remote prisons? Huh?!? (Some call them 
concentration camps.)

And what can *you* do? Well, call up your favorite news fakers 
and *demand* that they tell us the real stuff.

(312) 731-1100 is our main message. Donations appreciated. 
Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, 
Chicago, 60617.

The latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations and the news media.



