

Skolnick COMMENTARY #007
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnik, Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

A Chicago federal judge is linked to the White House scandals.

THE BACKGROUND

Federal district judge George W. Lindbergh (435-5355) has a 
strange business career. He has been a top official of the 
Chicago-based John Reed Associates (polygraph and security work). 
His major clients have been the Central Intelligence Agency and 
the National Security Agency. Lindbergh does frequent "lie box" 
work for these espionage agencies. He is an insider.

His firm also did work for the Paradise Island gambling cartel, 
run by former top Justice Department officials in the Bahamas. 
(They headed up, previously, the organized crime section of the 
Justice Department.) According to the book *Spooks*, by Jim 
Hogan, the bridge there (that is, the toll bridge) is owned by 
Richard Nixon.

Clinton has used Bobby Ray Inman as a sort of "kamikaze pilot" in 
appointing him Secretary of Defense. Clinton pushed the retired 
admiral into a political suicide mission. Against his will, Inman 
would've had to be ratified by a senate committee prepared to ask 
him about a lot of things -- some relating to George Bush and 
Inman's role as deputy director of the CIA. Inman quit just after 
the treasonous October Surprise deal by Bush and Reagan. Inman 
was also once head of the "Puzzle Palace" (the name for the 
National Security Agency).

The murder of journalist Danny Casolero also involved the killing 
of two NSA employees aiding Danny write about "The Octopus" (his 
name for the giant conspiracies, which were treasonous, involving 
October Surprise, Iran-Contra, and the notorious Inslaw affair 
(hushed up when one NSA employee was reportedly found murdered in 
the same hotel room where they found Danny)).

Inman withdrew his name as Secretary of Defense when he realized 
he was pushed by Clinton to blow apart Bush and other traitors to 
their country. Inman had been director of Faranti(sp?) 
International Signal Controls of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, which 
reportedly was used, by Bush, to supply highly-secret military 
items, of an exotic nature, to Iraq. Used, was Bank Lavoro(sp?), 
Atlanta and BCCI, the rogue bank. Also used were savings and 
loans tied to CIA.

All this and *more* are involved, in one way or another, in the 
Andrew Cetti(sp?) [Androchetti(?)] affair -- some 8 state and 
federal cases.

FUNNY THING

Regardless of which judge starts out with this 10-year-old 
litigation [i.e. Andrew Cetti affair], the cases end up, by some 
mysterious process, to be transferred to judge Lindbergh! -- the 
CIA/NSA expert who invokes illegal proceedings to try to hush up 
all the mafia/CIA bank links (including Vatican Bank, run by Paul 
Marchinkas(sp?), also the force behind the First National Bank of 
Cicero).

(...and that bank in Cicero was taken over by the successor to 
BCCI. *And* Marchinkas' nephew and that bank are among the 
defendants in the Andrew Cetti affair...)

Also a party to the cases is Household Bank, successor to the CIA 
front headquartered in Australia, the Nugan-Hand(sp?) Bank.

You can see why judge Lindbergh is trying to hush all of this up. 
Judge Lindbergh's specialty is to tell somebody to inform him 
what is involved -- and then he calls the witness a liar even 
though no one disputes the testimony! What, has he got a "lie 
box" right under his bench, huh?!


In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21, 9 pm [CST] every 
Monday evening in January [1994]. Play it again: FBI/CIA Dirty 
Business, (312) 731-1505. New message Sunday; we change it 
several times a week. Donations appreciated. Citizens' Committee 
to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 
60617. The latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day...



