

Skolnick COMMENTARY #008
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnik, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

A major news agency has keys to the future of the Clinton White 
House.

THE DETAILS

Hillary Rodham Clinton has been a law partner of Vincent Foster, 
jr., who became a White House aide. Earlier, Foster and Hillary, 
as lawyers, arranged for Bank Lavoro, Atlanta, and their twin, 
Bank of Criminals and Conspirators International [BCCI], to get 
$4 billion to Saddam Hussein for weapons, including nuclear -- 
all disguised as U.S. agriculture loans, laundered through the 
[unclear] banking group and the Stevens(sp?) family, financially 
interlocked with the Clintons.

Hillary, and Foster, were attorneys fronting for these Little 
Rock bankers -- largest bond brokers outside of Wall Street. The 
role of Foster was more than just personal lawyer for Bill and 
his wife. Foster was also Hillary's lover -- sort of balancing 
off Bill's episodes with the mistress. After all, all is fair in 
love and war.

The Resolution Trust Corporation [RTC] needed a new chief. 
Strange, but President Clinton, a purported Democrat, in July '93 
appointed a George Bush Republican, Stanley Tate, to be RTC boss.

Clinton was blackmailed into it.

Yet Tate threatened a top-to-bottom corruption cleanup of this 
S&L salvage agency [i.e. RTC]. A week later, Foster was murdered 
by three hit men from a German base.

A senate committee stonewalled Tate's ratification, and he 
withdrew his name late in November '93.

And thereafter escalated the Madison Guaranty S&L mess and the 
Whitewater Development scandal. In Foster's office were 
incriminating records which were grabbed up to whitewash Hillary. 
It is an unanswered question whether Bill himself knew how Foster 
and Hillary siphoned off some $47 million from the S&L.

To save Hillary from possible prison, Bill had key records 
suppressed and announced that Foster was a suicide. *Oh, yeah*?!

A fake, crumpled-up, so-called "suicide note" was later, 
supposedly, found in Foster's suitcase.

Bill and Hillary, by covering up the murder, have become 
accomplices to it -- a serious crime. (And some may think that 
what was cruel of her was to cover up the murder of her lover 
just to save herself.)

The major news group is deciding whether to go with these 
details, all documented to their satisfaction.

(AND: A close relative of Vice-President Albert Gore has said 
that he [Gore] will become President soon.)

But they had problems:
1) The news group's stock has already been slipping. At the same 
time, release of this timely story would cause a crack in the 
stock market and a fall in the news group's shares. So, they 
hesitate -- at least at this time, anyway;
2) But -- if they don't go with this story [that] they already 
have, they would lose credibility with other, competing news 
groups [who] may run with it; and
3) The ultra-rich got what they want in pushing Clinton, a 
relative unknown and a perceived misfit, into high office. So why 
wreck him now? Well, because it opens a window of emergency and 
opportunity, and the ultra-rich can complete their rotten agenda 
of repression and hardship inflicted on the ordinary people.

(312)731-1100 is our main message. Donations appreciated. 
Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, 
Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the latest on courts, banks, 
espionage agencies, political assassinations, and the news media.



