

Skolnick COMMENTARY #005
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnik, Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

So far, the press has stonewalled a major bribery story. This is 
about the Bank of Criminals and Conspirators International. BCCI 
supposedly went under in 1991. A high official of the bank turned 
over to the Bank of England an important document showing how 
BCCI bought its way into the U.S. government by seeking to have 
the rogue bank spread out over this nation. Funny thing: the hot 
paper was kept as an open record for 30 days. An international 
news group retrieved it and verified that receiving bribes were 
108 members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 28 U.S. 
Senators. The press lords, however, killed the story. So, the 
details were given to us and we pledged never to reveal the names 
of the helpful journalists. Our story about it appeared 
exclusively in a conservative publication. No sizeable news group 
would go *near* the explosive details.

Six Chicago commodities brokers were the vehicles of bribery. 
Such as London Affiliates(?), reportedly including CapCom(?) and 
GNP(?) Commodities. CapCom reportedly was being reviewed by top 
officials of Telecommunications, Inc. [TCI] of Denver and 
Chicago, the major cable monster.

BCCI and TCI also own about 16% of Turner Broadcasting and a 
sizeable hunk of the parent of ABC News, and worked a corrupt 
group of deals with the bigwigs at CBS.

So, the press fakers were afraid to death of the story. Also used 
as money launderies to bribe both houses of Congress were the 
Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. At 
one time, the Chicago exchanges were the major givers of gifts to 
Congress. So, representatives and senators would fly into Chicago 
-- supposedly to give a speech -- and get their "honorarium" and, 
at the same time, secret trading accounts were opened up for 
them.

As to them [secret trading accounts(?)], the commodity records 
show the loss in Chicago *but* a huge profit in the name of a 
strong man, or nominee, at the London end. The profits were 
withdrawn, so the lawmakers either got the bribes or were being 
blackmailed with record footprints showing they were paid off. 
Either way, BCCI had Congress "on the hook".

Early in '94, a top former BCCI official agreed to be extradited 
to the United States to stand trial for massive fraud. So now, 
the press admits he has direct knowledge of the bribery of U.S. 
government officials.

By the way, the press are liars when they say BCCI is defunct. 
Reportedly continuing their secret dealings is Chemical(?) 
[Clinical(?)] Bank Group made up of shadowy types from Atlanta 
and Chicago. They have bought out known criminal money launderies 
here, such as First National Bank of Cicero, originally operated 
by Paul Marchinkas(sp?), long-time head of the mafia/CIA-linked 
Vatican Bank.

Some contend all this diabolical data has been compiled by the 
Dutch and the British, who have a long-standing scheme to 
overthrow the U.S. government, explode the U.S. Constitution, 
*and* exploit the U.S. workforce without [unclear], without 
health benefits, and without decent wages.

You heard it right here: the related, exclusive details, such as 
the Androchetti(sp?) Affair; the $50 million Resolution Trust 
Corporation contingency fund which disappeared from Chicago and 
ended up to try to cover up Clinton's financial scandals in 
Arkansas; Bill and Hillary Clinton and BCCI; and the Mena, 
Arkansas, airport affair; dope and gun running; and...

In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21, 9 pm [CST] every 
Monday evening in January [1994]. Play it again: the Daley family 
and crooked City Hall, (312) 731-1505. New message Thursday; we 
change it several times a week. Donations appreciated. Citizens' 
Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, 
[Illinois] 60617. The latest on courts, banks, espionage 
agencies, political assassinations, and the news media. On 24 
hours a day...



