

Skolnick COMMENTARY #002
========================

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi. Sherman Skolnick (sp?), Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 Oglesby (sp?).

Some years ago the federal government set up a special 
[inaudible] group. For two-and-a-half years they met in secret at 
Iron Mountain, New York. Their findings were called "Report from 
Iron Mountain on the Possibility and Desirability of Peace." 
Their document, by some of the leading thinkers, was suppressed. 
Later, it was printed in a limited edition, with the *names* 
removed. Some were shocked by what they read.

Throughout history, permanent peace was dangerous to established 
governments. War, and the threat of war, are the principal 
organizing force for most societies. They divert attention from 
*other* economic and political problems. War keeps the factories 
going, wasting government manpower and material that would 
otherwise be of surplus. Peace brings unemployment, the collapse 
of prices of goods and property, and knocks down the government. 
In simple terms, war prevents [economic] depression. (By the way, 
sooner or later, whatever nation loses a war is overthrown. So it 
has been all the centuries. The American ruling circles lost the 
Vietnam War. The aftermath is bound to scatter the rulers to the 
winds.)

As the report says, in Europe, over the years, the typical 
standing army consisted of troops unfit for employment in 
commerce, industry or agriculture, led by officers unfit to 
practice any legitimate profession or to conduct a business 
enterprise. A large standing army is a form of social welfare 
program; a form of control of the population. War, and the threat 
of war, keep all levels of society busy. The newspapers are kept 
rich reporting it. Pundits are employed to mouth off. Wars speed 
up so-called scientific development. War goods do not have to 
show a profit or be the lowest price. In permanent peace there 
are vast cutbacks in research and development. And yes, wars kill 
off surplus population; young men with no good job waiting for 
them.

The [Iron Mountain] report points out that the war system makes 
stable government of society possible. The end of war means the 
end of national sovereignty.

Without an identified enemy, why would the CIA have 
a large secret budget to assassinate political leaders and 
overthrow other governments the White House does not like?

To promote their secret agenda, the CIA has taken over a part of 
the savings and loan system to funnel men and money for "dirty 
tricks" here and overseas.

The CIA likewise manipulates the federal bankruptcy courts to 
grab up companies for use as covert action fronts. In Chicago, 
this is done with the help of foreign intelligence agencies, such 
as Mossad. Chicago bankruptcy trustee William A. Brand (sp?) jr. 
is a top honcho of the CIA and other spy shops.

In the name of national security, the mass media have been 
*ordered* to "soft pedal" or "stay shut" about spy agencies doing 
such things. The CIA involvement in bankruptcy court should have 
made headlines as the number one item on the evening TV news. Yet 
not one word is said by the liars and whores of the press.

Play it again: Fermilab and weather modification. (312) 731-1505.

New message Monday; we change it several times a week. Donations 
appreciated. Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 S. 
Oglesby (sp?), Chicago, 60617.

For the latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations and the news media. On 24 hours.



