

Skolnick COMMENTARY #006
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnik, Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

Cynics have their own way of explaining things. Such as? Clinton 
returns from Europe amid a growing scandal called "Whitewater." 
He mutters to himself, "I have to have a distraction." A few 
hours later, a devastating earthquake shakes California. 
Conspiracy theorists shout, "Ah-HAH! I told you so! Scientists 
now have a way of triggering off earthquakes!"

This may just be a fanciful way of expressing it. Maybe Mother 
Nature just handed the President a change of subject at a 
convenient time, on a national holiday, Dr. King's birthday.

Sooner or later, Clinton may find his credibility has 
disappeared. Can a lawyer-liar continue nevertheless to be the 
front man, supposedly running the country, huh?! Is he going to 
go along with the Whitewater mess because his bosses, the ultra- 
rich, [unclear] since he was blackmailable? Others think the 
American Murder Association [A.M.A.] and the health insurance 
cartel want Hillary and Bill to go.

Under the 25th amendment to the U.S. Constitution, Gore would 
become President and there is a reported deal to make Jay 
Rockefeller Vice President -- all by appointment, without an 
election.

Another possibility is to declare, *or create*, a national 
emergency and invoke little-known provisions to suspend the 
Constitution! If so, General Shelley Kasivilli(sp?) would step up 
to the White House microphone and say, "I'm in charge here." He 
has been selected to be the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Sarcastic folks expect to see him on TV standing -- now get this 
-- next to a banner of the Nazi era, depicting his family's pro- 
Hitler background.

A change in the White House most likely would cause a stock 
market crash and be the basis for the so-called "national 
emergency."

Little known is the fact key federal judges around the country 
wear two hats: as judge and as selected officers for the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency [FEMA]. As FEMA operatives, they 
would automatically refuse *habeus corpus* and other 
constitutional rights to political activists on the National 
Security Index. Computer-generated arrest warrants for such 
outspoken folks are already waiting. Concentration camps have 
been built in remote areas, including off-shore Alaska.

The inside, sinister joke is the mass media already act as one 
trumpet for the Rockefellers and their ilk. The media fakers 
don't need a FEMA directive to censor and falsify the news. Why 
they do it every day right now!

The press whores have never allowed a candid, public discussion 
of the series of Executive Orders, the blueprints for 
dictatorship. In a so-called "national emergency," the so-called 
"head of the country" would issue martial law decrees; taking 
over the farms, the factories, communications, the courts, and 
the economy of the country.

FEMA has computerized, crisis-action programs to control all 
this. Some contend it is unconstitutional, *but* with the courts 
closed... uh, after all, who would publicly proclaim the illegal 
nature of these decrees?

In Chicago, among the FEMA operatives are [allegedly] 7th circuit 
federal appeals chief judge Richard Posner(sp?). He's also a 
spokesman for Rockefeller's oil-soaked University of Chicago. He 
is a dictator even on a quiet day!

Another "FEMA Hitler" is [allegedly] Chicago federal district 
judge Paul E. Plunkett(sp?).

To save the Constitution, some say, "Keep our crooked President, 
right or wrong."

In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21, 9 pm every Monday 
evening in January.

Play it again: The FBI and the CIA Dirty Games. [312] 731-1505. 
New message Monday; we change it several times a week. Donations 
appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 
South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the latest on 
courts, banks, espionage agencies, political assassinations...



