

Skolnick COMMENTARY #018
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 South Oglesby.

Chicago's City Hall is an interesting study in power. It is even 
considered important by those not *in* the "Windy City" [i.e. 
Chicago].

Starting in 1955, the city's strong man for 21 years was Richard 
J. Daley. He got into office because the one slated by the 
Democrats for mayor, Clarence Wagner, was assassinated.

You probably know there is no real G.O.P. [i.e. Republican party] 
in this town. So usually, if the Democrats select you to run... 
well, you're in.

In 1976, Daley died -- 24 hours after he was administered an 
adulterated swine flu shot. Daley, and Otto Kerner, jr., ran a 
private "nuthouse" near Aurora [Illinois]. Kerner, as local 
county judge, was in charge of the "lunatic docket." Political 
victims sometimes ended up getting plundered this way. Kerner 
went on to become Illinois Governor and later, federal appeals 
judge. (Our work [i.e. CCCC], by the way, sent Kerner to jail for 
bribery -- highest ranking such federal judicial jailbird in 
history.)

Daley's son Richie sat in the state legislature specializing, 
naturally, in mental health laws -- to favor his family asylum. 
Richie later became Cook County State's Attorney. [Chicago is in 
Cook County.] In that role, he covered up massive probate fraud.

Example: Former city fire commissioner Quinn was laying in the 
hospital, "bombed out." [i.e. very drunk] The Daleys pushed into 
service a pliable nurse who helped shove a paper under Quinn's 
nose. (The Daleys had a supply of such medical malefactors from 
their private padded-cell factory [i.e. the asylum in Aurora].) 
Thus signed over to the Daley family was some $300,000, with 
Richie's brother Michael named as probate executor. Some cousins, 
however, got gypped [i.e. they were "cheated"] and told a court 
reformer all the sordid details.

When maverick mayor Harold Washington was murdered in '87 with a 
poisoned cup of coffee, uh -- who covered it up? Why, naturally, 
State's Attorney Richie Daley. Thus "snuffed out" was Chicago's 
first black mayor.

And so, father like son, Richie became mayor by murder. He 
carried over police superintendent LeRoy Martin. And, with Martin 
and Daley, Chicago became an open city for dope. Police cars even 
gave safe escort to whole truckloads of dope on the way to a 
police-protected warehouse. Dope money laundries included car 
washes, taverns, and certain auto repair shops.

About 1992, a special federal grand jury began "sniffing around." 
Unable to feel safe *here*, the grand jury met in *Milwaukee* 
instead! In on the dirty business, local federal officials 
stopped the works. Why? Well, that was going too far. They were 
about to indict the former police superintendent *and* his co- 
conspirator, Richie Daley. Instead, the crooked federals framed 
two "collectors" for City Hall: Richard R. Reynolds, sr., a 
veteran cop, and his sidekick, Leonard Kerr(?).

Chicago federal trial judge Wayne Anderson is in a position to 
know the truth. That could put Richie [Daley] in prison. *But* -- 
if the judge even thinks, however, of doing the right thing... 
well, this town might have another unsolved political 
assassination -- like *him*!

Meanwhile, Richie's wife is money hungry. "Why can't you make 
really *big* loot?! -- like brother Bill, running the dope and 
money laundering Amalgamated Bank, huh?" Richie's wife insists 
[that] he not run for re-election in 1995.

So. Do you think this all is just true of Chicago? Wrong. Other 
big cities are about the same.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: The Crooked Chief Federal Appeals Judge Here. 
(312) 731-1505.

New message Friday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



