

Skolnick COMMENTARY #016
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 South Oglesby.

Are President Clinton and Vice-President Gore *both* facing 
removal from office because of scandals?

Background
++++++++++
Prior to re-election in '72 of President Nixon and Vice-President 
Spiro Agnew, the ultra-rich through their monopoly press played 
down the Watergate matter. The real rulers of America knew full- 
well they [Nixon/Agnew] were scoundrels and could be easily 
scandalized to remove them. The secret agenda went into play in 
'73; president and vice-president both to be replaced by another 
team -- *all* without an election.

Our chairman [CCCC] was first in the United States to go public 
with details of Agnew's bribery going back to the time when he 
was Governor of Maryland. Since we [CCCC] were *ahead* of the 
secret timetable, the press whores called us liars, and worse, 
right up until October '73 when Agnew, facing criminal 
indictment, resigned.

Similarly, Clinton and Gore were known by the ultra-rich to be 
corrupt scoundrels *before* their '92 election.

Involving hundreds of millions of dollars is milk bovine hormone 
by Monsanto Chemicals. It speeds up milk production. However, it 
causes the cows to be over-used and develop infections which have 
to be treated with antibiotics. Pasteurization tends to conceal 
all this. However milk drinkers, particularly children, are 
greatly at risk.

The head of the Food and Drug Administration [FDA] has been David 
Kessler(sp?), carried over from the Bush administration. His 
chief deputy is Mike Taylor, a cousin of Al Gore's wife, Tipper. 
Taylor was previously chief outside counsel for Monsanto.

About February '94, top FDA honcho Taylor caused to be issued an 
advisory opinion that labelling is *not* required that a product 
is bovine hormone free.

Gore and Tipper and Kessler and Tipper's relative, Taylor, make 
up what some call "The Gang of Four." They reportedly are 
indicated in the biggest bucks corruption scandal in the history 
of the nation! Millions and millions of dollars.

Also, FDA has scientific units; key personnel there have a 
zillion dollar racket. Through relatives and friends they "sell 
short" pharmaceutical stocks just before the FDA rejects putting 
the o.k. on some drug with big money potential.

Used for this various bribery and dirty business is the highly 
corrupt Chicago Board Options Exchange. Two federal agencies that 
supervise the markets have covered up these massive crimes 
against the American people: That's the CFTC and SCC. [C. Futures 
Trading Commission(?) and Securities C. Commission(?)]

Also, the FDA enforces an unwritten law called "Failure to 
Bribe." Example: A generic drug company making low-priced items 
was "plowed under" by the FDA -- that was Barr Chemical, also a 
whistleblower.

Like in 1973, the New York Times and other major papers are 
sitting on the Vice-President's scandal. Why? Because of a high- 
level secret agenda and timetable to install Jay Rockefeller and 
one other as the new White House team.

All without an election.

Because of his bloody family name, Rockefeller could not be 
elected on his own.

Watergate drew attention *away* from the oil fraud [a.k.a. 1973 
"Oil Embargo"]. On the other hand, the Clinton and Gore scandals 
would divert attention from the oncoming stock crash and 
depression.

This message will run longer than usual on the air; so tell your 
friends to listen also.

In Chicago, see us on cable t.v. channel 21, 9 pm most Monday 
evenings.

Play it again: Clinton and the CIA Mysteries. (312) 731-1505.

New message Wednesday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



