

Skolnick COMMENTARY #011
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 South Oglesby.

The signs are there, but not enough people are watching.

The stock market has been pumped up by a lot of people emptying 
their bank accounts and other financial accounts and buying 
mutual funds. The theory being: the managers of mutual funds 
[pay(?)] more than others. Oh, yeah?

And the mutual funds, in turn, buy stocks. So a lot of 
inexperienced, unsophisticated people have a lot of their life 
savings into stocks. Also, the very low interest rates have 
pumped up the price of bonds. On huge volume, the stock market 
has been churning -- inching up, and backing down -- as the 
ultra-rich use their newspapers, magazines, radio and t.v. to 
lure more and more suckers into the markets.

Traditionally, sizeable corporate interests buy off financial 
reporters to float stories heating up the know-nothings into 
buying. Some such reporters, and their editors, are double- 
dippers: their regular salary plus "under the table" to promote 
phoney stories. It's one of the great unpublicized scandals, 
along with the media acting to "shake down" companies to get 
advertising contracts [by] threatening to run negative items.

At the top of the market, the very-rich unload and it's called 
"distribution." Insiders know the horrendous news is waiting to 
be sprung. Such as terrible news about IBM, that their securities 
are being racked by the ratings agencies like Standard & Poors. 
Or even worse, that IBM may be pushed into bankruptcy by panicy 
banks. Items like that, if widely circulated, could be the pin to 
Wall Street's balloon. With the markets so puffed up, some think 
a specific "pin" is not necessary.

The press is avoiding discussion. We're facing a crash in bonds 
or in stocks, or *both* together.

A few realize the great danger of overstaying a bull market.

Question: Is Clinton up to it? Can he deal with the financial 
tailspin without using emergency powers -- such as shutting down 
the stock exchanges or halting the bond markets -- *huh*?!

Using domestic emergency powers is becoming more and more 
useless. High technology makes it easy to side-step Wall Street 
and trade on foreign exchanges with the blip of a computer mouse. 

Also, so-called "derivatives" are the "tail wagging the dog" -- 
options and futures contracts and numbers games of every kind.

The ultra-rich promote paper money; they feel they can control 
the [peasants(?)] that way. On the other hand: independent money 
in gold, silver and platinum. When gold is able to stay over $410 
an ounce, well, the paper money game will come to an end. The 
Federal Reserve and other private, central banks keep trying to 
keep gold under the magic number of 410. But demands for gold 
will wreck The Fed's dirty trick.

America and the western world are facing 3 historical cycles: the 
500 year economic cycle, 1492-1992 (we're overdue on that one); 
and the 60 year cycle 1933 (the date of the bank collapse) and 
1993; and then there's 1943 -- the Pope made a secret 50 year 
deal not to interfere with the western world and their 
financials. Of course it's up in 1993.

Strong central governments are becoming obsolete: Moscow, 
Washington, London, Paris and others.

What can you do? Huh-huh. Call up your news-fakers and tell them 
to stop *kidding* us, huh?!

In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21. 9 pm [cst] Monday 
evenings, February 21, 28, and March 7.

Play it again: *Eliminating Presidents*, (312)731-1505. New 
message Thursday; we change it several times a week. Donations 
appreciated. Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 
South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the latest on 
courts, banks, espionage agencies, political assassinations, and 
the news media. On 24 hours...



