

Skolnick COMMENTARY #012
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 South Oglesby.

The very rich and powerful are not given to moist-eyed emotion. 
They can hold a Christmas party, for example, for their devoted 
workers and smile on them. And then, a few days later, dismiss a 
bunch of them and tell their brutal security guards to throw the 
workers off the premises in one hour.

Fearing a labor dispute, the *Chicago Tribune* put attack dogs to 
terrorize the printing workers in the Trib's "Freedom Center." 
(With the smashing of the union, by the way, it's called "Slavery 
Center.")

Likewise so, when the ultra-rich deal with their mannequins, 
labelled "President of the United States." President Lincoln was 
assassinated a few days after the end of the Civil War. His post- 
war policy was to go easy on the South. So, agriculture would 
have resumed amid plummeting prices. The very rich, including the 
Rothschilds, had huge commodities speculations to the contrary. 
To some, bringing the South back [into the Union] was treason. 
So, they had Lincoln's brains blown out and blamed a "lone nut."

The ultra-rich and their top military and CIA hawks accused 
President Kennedy of treason in denying U.S. air cover at the 
aborted invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs; also, for JFK 
planning detente with the Soviets. Yet JFK was popular with the 
common people. Nevertheless, his brains were blown out in an open 
car with military-style triangulation firing. A "lone nut" was 
blamed, and himself murdered.

As you can see, the very rich are not sentimental.

The ultra rich (and again, with their trusted CIA and military 
retainers) accused President Nixon of treason in his dealings 
with North Vietnam. Also, he wanted to be an imperial president, 
blackmailing CIA with his knowledge of the CIA murdering JFK.

Blowing his brains out in an open car would be messy, so, ahead 
of the 1972 re-election of "Tricky Dick," CIA double-agents got 
themselves caught at the Watergate Hotel -- owned by the Pope.

All to finger Nixon. (Some details are in the book *Silent Coup* 
by Colodny(sp?)).

Nixon was so popular he won re-election in 49 of the 50 states. 
Yet, shortly thereafter began the Watergate bombardment. The 
press so ran after him he couldn't hold press conferences!

And, just at the height of *his* popularity, the press is 
mounting *their* "Whitewater-gate" blitz, against Clinton. Some 
of his schemes on health care endanger large insurance companies 
-- like Prudential, owned by the British royal family.

Funny thing: What the press trumpets of the rich are accusing 
Clinton are true enough.

Yes, he and his wife committed financial crimes in ripping off 
$47 million through Arkansas S&L and others.

Yes, Bill and Hillary, to try to save themselves from prison, 
covered up the murder of White House aide Vincent Foster.

And yes, the ultra rich contend privately that Clinton committed 
treason in aborting a *genuine* CIA plot to murder Iraqi 
strongman Saddam Hussein, a sworn enemy of the United States, on 
July 17, 1993. And two days later, Clinton chopping off the head 
of FBI director Sessions because he was investigating Clinton's 
"treason." And on July 20, Foster was murdered just as he was 
planning to plead with Bill to leave the plot go forward for 
"national security" reasons, or be impeached.

The ultra rich consider most Americans stupid and [that they] 
have to be told fairy tales; to be amused with stories of an 
angry wife cutting off her husbands "ding-a-ling."

So, will Clinton be put to the wall at the height of his 
popularity? Remember: The ultra rich are not sentimental.

(312) 731-1100 is our main message. Donations will be 
appreciated...



