

Skolnick COMMENTARY #019
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 South Oglesby.

On the business and financial level, there really is no 
difference between democrats and republicans. They all scratch 
each other's back. As a center of power, Chicago is a good 
example.

Although not a city employee, Jeremiah Joyce reportedly has an 
unmarked office in City Hall. He's more powerful than Chicago 
mayor Richie Daley. Joyce and Daley reportedly own Glenrock 
Company (Northlake, Illinois, Brookfield, Wisconsin, and 
Indianapolis, Indiana). They distribute construction supplies of 
chemicals and GE [General Electric] sealants.

Whether democrat or republican, state contractors in Wisconsin, 
Indiana, and Illinois *know* they have to buy their supplies from 
Glenrock, such as -- tens of millions of dollars of curing 
compounds for pouring cement and wire mesh for state highways; 
materials for parking lots, airport runways, bridges and 
buildings; such as sealants for windows, joints, masonry and 
other construction; waterproofing and weatherproofing for a long 
list of construction applications.

Since the state contractors buy their own supplies from Glenrock 
Company to fulfill a state contract, well, Glenrock's name does 
generally not show in public records. Well of course, Richie 
Daley and his reputed business partner, Jeremiah Joyce, like this 
secretive nature of doing things.

The popular press avoided mentioning the business interests of 
Richie's father, Richard J. Daley, when he was mayor for 21 
years. *And* they avoid saying a single word about Richie's 
financial interests.

A natural question is, Do state highway contractors and such give 
"kickbacks," huh? Well, some think so. Well why else does their 
firm, Glenrock Company, seem to be favored by contractors? Since 
they distribute items such as GE sealants, you can see why NBC -- 
owned by General Electric [GE] -- is silent about all this. GE 
also heavily finances so-called "public t.v." such as channel 11 
[PBS] in Chicago.

And, some raise dark questions about where the money came from 
for Joyce and Daley to be in such a tremendous business. Joyce's 
son was tied to dope king John Kempis(?). Two of "junior's" [i.e. 
Joyce's son] friends were murdered. Kempis might have escaped 
prosecution -- except he put out a murder contract on Joyce's 
son. Thereafter, the highly political and corrupt federal 
prosecutor in Chicago sprung into action, publicizing Kempis' 
dope trafficking and putting him in jail.

Knowledgeable law enforcement people contend that Richie Daley & 
Co. are the apex of the dope business, *and* are "untouchable" 
because they have plugged into big business, whether republican 
or democrat.

About March, 1992, took place a strange event. A powerful, 
sophisticated bomb was discovered under the floor, of the 5th 
floor, in Chicago's City Hall. That's where the mayor's office 
is. It was described as a "triple-trigger type [bomb]," perfected 
years ago by the Germans and hard to de-fuse. News editors here 
knew about this event, but suppressed it. Risking much bloodshed, 
Daley did not inform his City Hall employees to "clear out" 
[evacuate the building] during the dangerous period when the bomb 
was being de-activated.

Now some think that all of this was a warning by some financial 
group trying to "muscle in" on Daley and super honcho, Jeremiah 
Joyce.

Tell the news-fakers to stop kidding us that there's a difference 
between the democrats and the republicans.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: More about the corruption of Richie Daley and his 
family; (312) 731-1505.

New message Saturday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



