

Skolnick COMMENTARY #017
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 South Oglesby.

The Clinton scandal: So you think the center of it is in Little 
Rock, huh? *Wrong*. The center is in Chicago.

For several years, the primary lawyers for Resolution Trust 
Corporation [RTC] have been the Chicago-based Hopkins and Sutter. 
In fact, the S&L bailout agency's principal offices have been 
*inside* Hopkins and Sutter!

Prior efforts to show RTC is corrupt have been torpedoed. Hopkins 
[and Sutter] were the ones arranging on behalf of Federal Deposit 
Insurance and their step-sister RTC for the Rose law firm to be 
used to handle clean-up claims of defunct S&Ls in the Chicago 
area.

Rose partners Vincent Foster, jr., and Hillary Rodham Clinton 
were the "law fakers" helping friends escape paying millions. 
Foster was also the master "bagman" for tens of millions of 
dollars of illegal speculations in Chicken futures and "selling 
short" pharmaceutical stocks on inside information. This was done 
for a circle of law-license gangsters, like Hillary and her 
friends, dealing with the selected, criminally-inclined types on 
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board Options 
Exchange. (By the way, Did they "rub elbows" with relatives of 
state and federal judges "washing" bribe money in the same 
markets!?)

Foster's vast dirty business in drug stocks overlapped the doings 
of Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, and her cousin, Michael R. 
Taylor, who went on to become a top honcho of the Food and Drug 
Administration. Gore, of course, became Vice-President.

Two federal agencies, the CFTC [Chicago Futures Trading 
Commission] and the SEC [Securities Exchange Commission] are 
supposed to investigate such events. *Oh, yeah?!* They and the 
press fakers all look the other way so that two *known* 
scoundrels could be elected to high office. The President and the 
Vice-President are blackmailed by *their patrons*, the ultra- 
rich.

Some $47 million is missing resulting from the Arkansas S&L mess 
and other fakery by the Clintons. To try to patch it up, some $50 
million from an RTC contingency fund, *in Chicago*, was secretly 
transferred to Little Rock.

One of the lawyers arranging this is from Park Ridge, the Chicago 
suburb where the Rodhams are from. He is John E. Gearham(?), 708- 
xxx-xxxx. He is close to Hillary's family. In January '94, 
Gearham, in the presence of a former client, confessed to our 
chairman [CCCC] that Gearham was greatly concerned that his 
circle was prepared to "frame" him for the clandestine money 
transfer and send him to prison! The "fix" is so strong, he 
confessed further, that nothing could save him!

The RTC fund is the subject of some *eight* state and federal 
cases in the Chicago area, known as "The Joseph Androcetti(sp?) 
Affair."

Filed in federal court (and a copy served on Gearham and the 
RTC's attorneys) are the particulars of Gearham's confession. 
When it came up in court, they did not dispute it.

We remind you why Chicago is the best place for the "big fix" -- 
like used by the Clintons. Remember: The currency and commodity 
markets are here; preferred for "washing" bribery money by 
government officials worldwide. The news media here are the 
biggest liars in the land, with a *long* background of 
criminality -- like the [Chicago] Tribune Company with their 
links all the way back to Al Capone. *And* it's been documented 
for more than 30 years the state and federal judges here are 
moreso "for sale" than any other place in the land!

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: The Corruption of Al Gore. (312) 731-1505.

New message Friday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



