

Skolnick COMMENTARY #010
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

More about the Clinton White House scandals.

Some contend White House aide Vincent Foster, jr. committed 
suicide *in* the White House and the body was removed and planted 
in a park in Virginia. If so, whoever moved the body used the 
opportunity to make it look like he was murdered. So the 
President and his wife would be guilty of being accomplices to 
murder by their coverup. [??]  Others contend the body shows 
Foster was apparently murdered and the body delivered to the park 
and positioned so as to cast suspicion on the White House.

Either way, Clinton has stonewalled the matter and arranged to 
hold back the release of the autopsy.

Foster and Hillary were not only lovers but also law partners, 
and worked on clandestine deals for the Bank of Criminals and 
Conspirators International [BCCI] -- involving money-washing for 
domestic and overseas political murders, gun-running, and dope- 
trafficking. Military CIA officers, posing as Justice Department 
officials, have twisted matters around so as to finger Bill 
Clinton.

But Clinton, after all, is no angel.

The mass media have soft-pedalled reports that Hillary's law firm 
has shredded records relating to the President and first lady's 
daily financial business. Some in the press are also slanting 
reports so as to blame Hillary alone, as if "Sludge Willy" is 
himself innocent. *Oh, yeah?!*

Left out of the press are key details:

ITEM: Some $47 million is missing from the Clinton's Arkansas 
rotten dealings -- plundering an S&L, funneling money through 
real estate firms, and other money [unclear].

ITEM: Clinton's nominee for head of the firm the S&L bailout 
racket called "Resolution Trust Corporation" [RTC] wanted to 
clean up S&L corruption. *But*, he withdrew his name. S&Ls in 
Illinois, Texas, and Colorado have been plundered by CIA 
operatives and left bankrupt.

ITEM: The RTC in Chicago transferred some $50 million from a 
little-known contingency fund here to Arkansas... the attempt 
to cover up the Arkansas embezzlement done by the Clintons and 
their criminal gang.

The fund was administered for RTC by Household Bank as part of 
their merger with an S&L in the Chicago area. The head of the 
parent firm, Household International, an expert on financials, 
was murdered in April '93. Household is a successor to Nugan- 
Hand(sp?) Bank, the worldwide CIA front headquartered in 
Australia.

ITEM: Federal judges in Chicago have "stood on their head" to try 
to cover up the disappearance of the RTC fund here and the 
transfer to Arkansas. ([Allegedly] including Chicago federal 
district judge George Lindbergh, who heads a "lie box" company 
with major clients CIA, National Security Agency, and off-shore 
gambling casinos. Also, [allegedly] Chicago federal bankruptcy 
judge John D. Schwartz.) It is referred to as "The Androcetti 
Affair"(sp?).

ITEM: Hillary Rodham Clinton is facing indictment by a federal 
grand jury in Little Rock for bank embezzlement and income tax 
fraud.

ITEM: Leading the attack on the Clinton White House is Chicago 
Congressman Henry Hyde, reportedly in charge of CIA's bloody 
"black budget" [CfD -- This would be money budgeted for CIA 
"projects" by the Congress that for secrecy reasons does not 
appear in public documents]. Hyde has more actual power than the 
director of Central Intelligence to arrange political 
assassinations, to launder secret funds, and to railroad enemies 
into prison. Hyde has been director of a suburban S&L here, now 
defunct, fronting for CIA. The federal court case of RTC against 
Henry Hyde was ordered suppressed because of "national security."

In Chicago, see us on cable TV, channel 21. 9 pm [cst] Monday 
evenings, February 14, 21, and 28.

Play it again: The Rotten *Chicago Tribune*, (312)731-1505. New 
message Saturday; we change it several times a week. Donations 
appreciated. Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 9800 
South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the latest on 
courts, banks, espionage agencies, political assassinations, and 
the news media.



