

Skolnick COMMENTARY #022
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 Oglesby.

All the years, the FBI and the CIA played dirty games with each 
other.

Example: The FBI had leased their cars from a west suburban auto 
dealer. The two so-called "owners" are much on TV... sort of, uh, 
celebrities, holding up cash. Their motto? "We always save you 
more money." Funny thing: The dealership was started up, 
reportedly, with funds from gangster "Momo" Giancana and his gang.

Often pursued by FBI agents, "Momo" told them to "leave him 
alone"; that he "worked with CIA." Some contend "Momo" helped 
recruit for CIA's aborted invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs. 
"Momo" was assassinated by CIA in 1975, just as he was about to 
be questioned by a Congressional committee.

The auto dealer, together with their banks, reportedly acts as a 
money laundry for criminal enterprises jointly with foreign and 
domestic espionage units.

The FBI put together details resulting in the federal criminal 
prosecution of [Frank?] Carlisi and others for loan sharking and 
extortion. A key federal government witness has been Lenny 
Patrick. Cuban TV put on a documentary showing Lenny and two 
other Chicago mobsters were implicated in the assassination of 
President Kennedy.

The Carlisi trial has been by Chicago federal district judge Paul 
E. Plunkett(sp?)... implicated *himself* in covering up, in his 
court, laundering of funds through the Illinois Judges Pension 
Fund. A gift (or bribe) of $2 million was put offshore *for* 
Judge Plunkett when he dismissed charges against 20 name-brand 
stockbrokers accused of embezzling $200 million from the Judges 
Pension Fund.

In the Carlisi case, defense attorneys have included former 
Chicago federal district judge George Layton(sp?). According to 
documents from the National Archives, Layton was the secret 
attorney for Lee Harvey Oswald, the Dallas CIA "patsy."

Also in the Carlisi case, FBI monitored the defendants through 
the FBI wiretap center in Presidential Towers. The two top 
honchos in that residential complex have been Congressman Dan 
Rostenkowski and super money wizard Dan Shannon. The two operate 
their dirty game through their ownership of the spy and gangster 
Garfield Ridge Trust & Savings Bank. Rostenkowski also helps CIA 
and foreign espionage agencies launder loot through the Chicago 
Board of Trade. Two of "Rosty's" daughters were supposedly 
employees of the Board of Trade -- although apparently not 
performing much work.

The CIA is accused of bringing into the United States 1,000 kilos 
of cocaine. The CBS TV program [CfD -- Here, I think he means *60 
Minutes*], however, censored how the money flowed back *out* of 
the United States through the persons and businesses we have 
outlined here.

Another peculiar FBI and CIA situation involves Chicago assistant 
federal prosecutor William R. Hogan, jr. He has been accused, in 
federal court, of arranging perjury in the criminal prosecutions 
of the El Rukn dope gang. Formerly called Blackstone Rangers, the 
El Rukns, as a terrorist group, have been financed by the Charles 
Kettering Foundation and the Charles Merrill Trust -- *both* 
money types for CIA.

Are the dope shipments also *arranged* through CIA? The FBI 
started investigating Hogan but were temporarily *blocked* on 
"national security" grounds by CIA! Now, with the aid of CIA, 
these terrorists are being put out of jails and back on the 
street.

Call up your favorite news fakers or talk show fakers and tell 
them to stop kidding us in censoring this.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: Eliminating Presidents. (312) 731-1505.

New message Saturday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



