

Skolnick COMMENTARY #020
========================

[CfD Editor -- I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve 
either all or portions of the following.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts 
[CCCC], 9800 South Oglesby.

A key [unclear] in various worldwide schemes is the Chicago-based 
law firm, Hopkins & Sutter.

The highly corrupt S&L whitewash agency is the Resolution Trust 
Corporation (RTC). Guess where one of their main offices is? Why, 
inside the Chicago offices of Hopkins & Sutter.

A Hopkins [& Sutter] partner is Jay Steinberg. He was bankruptcy 
trustee in the strange case of William Stecker(sp?) and 
Grayville(?) Corporation. *Hundreds* of millions of dollars 
disappeared. Steinberg doesn't seem to know *where*.

Also complicit with Steinberg is a member of the Justice 
Department's murder squad, Mike "Chucky" Peters, a Chicago FBI 
agent with worldwide authority. In an undisputed, unpublicized 
federal case, Peters was accused of complicity in the murder of 
some *40* federal grand jury witnesses in the notorious Inslaw 
grand jury quiz.

The Federal Deposit Insurance has a evil stepsister -- namely, 
RTC. Hopkins & Sutter, *and* RTC, arranged to have the rotten 
Rose Law Firm of Little Rock used to cover up massive plundering 
of assets of failing or already defunct savings & loans in the 
Chicago area -- such as in the western suburbs here. Backed up by 
a host of details, it seems CIA clandestine operatives 
*plundered* these S&Ls -- including Olympic S&L and Clyde 
Savings.

The Rose Law Firm partner, Hillary Rodham Clinton, played a role 
in *raping and plundering* one or more Chicago-area S&Ls!

Hopkins & Sutter, and RTC-Chicago, arranged in recent years to 
transfer some $50 million from an RTC contingency fund to Little 
Rock -- to help cover up the $47 million of federally insured 
funds missing in Arkansas.

A federal grand jury in Little Rock is considering criminal 
charges against the First Lady: massive bank embezzlement and 
income tax fraud.

The [RTC] funds were transferred from Chicago reportedly with the 
help of Jay Steinberg *and* with attorney John Gearham(sp?), who 
is of the Chicago suburb of Park Ridge -- same place Hillary is 
from. Gearham is "tight" with Hillary's lawyer brother.

With the reported connivance of Hopkins & Sutter, the RTC records 
are gone! Helping in the huge rip-off is Household International 
and their units, Household Bank -- an outgrowth of CIA's Nugan- 
Hand Bank, once headquartered in Australia.

Interwoven in all this is the strange murder of White House aide 
Vincent Foster, jr. Now, one of his secretaries has been a 
business partner of Dan Lassater -- tied to the savings & loans 
through crooked bond dealings. After Foster's death, she 
reportedly swiped some of his records; and they're being used by 
Hopkins & Sutter and other lawyers, clandestine operatives, 
murder squad members, and crooked federal judges here to 
blackmail the Clinton White House.

To "muddy the waters," they are spreading rumors... [laughs] 
possibly true [laughs]... that Hillary had her former lover and 
law partner, Foster -- now get this -- *murdered* by the Secret 
Service in the White House! Those who removed the body, however, 
planted it in a park in Virginia to cast suspicion on the White 
House.

And what can you do? Well, call up your local news-fakers and 
tell them to stop kidding us about what the Clinton scandal is 
all about, huh?

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Still playing: Mayor Daley and the former police superintendant 
and the dope business; (312) 731-1505.

New message Friday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.



