From: dona@bilver.uucp (Don Allen)
Newsgroups: alt.alien.visitors,alt.conspiracy
Subject: Web of Conspiracy intro/README
Message-ID: <1991Aug8.055902.24581@bilver.uucp>
Date: 8 Aug 91 05:59:02 GMT
Organization: W. J. Vermillion - Winter Park, FL
Lines: 42




The Web of Conspiracy intro:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This text is a channelling from a group who call themselves
"Cosmic Awareness". I do not know anything about them and am
attempting to check them out at this time. This file goes into 
some detail about the (alleged) underground bases and touches
on the Dulce and Area 51 topics. I would call this a controversial
text, myself. Please read this at your OWN RISK. It has *not* been
verified or otherwise checked out, to my knowledge. I will leave
it with you to do with as you see fit.

Since this is (yet another) huge text, I will give the sizes here:
 
(minus message headers)

Web part 1: 27267 bytes
Web part 2: 26636 bytes
Web part 3: 27914 bytes
Web part 4: 32776 bytes

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please note: I only post these files to educate people what is currently
available. They are for informational purposes only and as such, should
NOT be taken at face value. There is NO substitute for research and
investigation. If you want to ridicule the information, fine...but I
draw the line at personal slams, so please do yourselves a favor and
avoid ad homenim attacks and we will get along fine. Let's endeavor
to be a notch above the sci.skeptics and alt.paranormal obnoxiousness :-)


Don



----------------------------------------------------------------------
This information is presented for your persusal and is a continuation 
of my policy of informing the public what is currently available. The
content of this information does NOT necessarily reflect the personal
views of the poster,nor should the views,opinions,statements or claims
represented in the following be accepted by anyone reading these texts
at *face* value. If this interests you, please endeavor to research it
yourself and investigate it to *your* satisfaction, and as such I will
leave it in your hands to either prove it or de-bunk it :-)
                                                          
As I do not have a great amount of time available to pursue follow-ups
exclusively, comments to me should be directed to dona@bilver.uucp    
in mail. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------



                       REVELATIONS OF AWARENESS

                    The New Age Cosmic Newsletter

                   Cosmic Awareness Communications
                P.O. Box 119 Olympus, Washington 83507

                     Helping People Become Aware


                      90-10        Issue No. 363

                            SPECIAL REPORT

                       "NIGHTMARE HALL" -------

                       "GOD" AT WORK ON LEVEL 6


      THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:  (THE ALIEN PRESENCE):  (PART 7)...

              THE UNDERGROUND CITY AT DULCE, NEW MEXICO


COSMIC AWARENESS is the Force that expressed Itself through Jesus of
Nazareth, the Buddha, Krishna, Mohammed, Edgar Cayce and other great
avatars who served as `Channels' for the `Heavenly Father' and who
speaks again today as the world begins to enter the `New Age' of
spiritual consciousness and awareness.  Since 1963 Cosmic Awareness
has been communicating through carefully trained channels.  This
information is for those who desire to help in bringing in the New
Age.  Throughout the thousands of `Readings' given through these
various channels, Cosmic Awareness tells us not to believe anything,
but to question, explore, doubt, and discover for yourself, through
your own channel what is the truth.  Cosmic Awareness will only
`indicate' and `suggest'.  Neither C.A.C. or any of the Interpreters
is responsible for anything Cosmic Awareness states in any of these
readings, nor does C.A.C. or the Interpreters necessarily agree with
the statements of Cosmic Awareness.  The Interpreters interpret the
energies as they see them in trance levels and are not personally
responsible for what is said.  The Interpreters published herein have
no connection with, nor control over the editorial comments and
material, including illustrations.  This is entirely the
responsibility of the editor.  Members of C.A.C. are invited to send
in questions of general interest to ask Awareness for possible
publication in this newsletter.
                                  Paul Shockley, Interpreter


             ABOUT THE INFORMATION ON ALIENS THAT FOLLOWS

               (Excerpts from a C.A.C. General Reading)
                             May 12, 1990

Question:

     This information on the alien presence, that has not yet been
published:  Does Awareness suggest that this take priority over the
other more spiritual information, because of the possibility that
`window' could close sooner than expected, or does Awareness see this
`window' remaining open and the alien information being sent out over
a period of six months or a year and be balanced with other, less
negative, information?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness suggests that the most poignant, most precise,
most important information be released first; that the other
information may be seen as likened unto the flesh that fills out the
skeleton.

     This Awareness indicates there could come a time wherein this
information would be stopped.  There could be circumstances that
would prevent the release of the information and this information,
indeed, does need to be released.

     There are many releasing information, but in proportion at this
time, less than 1 percent of the population has any inkling of what
is really going on, and at least 5 percent should know.  This
Awareness indicates that probably one person in a thousand,--even
fewer at this time,--has ever heard of the information released even
by Cooper, or the elements involved in such information.  Probably
only one in a thousand has ever heard of MJ-12...perhaps even fewer
than one in a thousand.  It is likely that one in a half million, or
quarter of a million, has heard of Nightmare Hall.  This Awareness
indicates, of course, this is changing, and more and more are hearing
of this.

     This Awareness indicates that such information could be given to
tabloids and immediately, upon publication, these figures would
change enormously.  This Awareness indicates a recent tabloid did
include information relating to Cooper and to Lazar, and much of the
population became aware, but to a very limited degree, since the
article was only approximately one-half page in length.

     This Awareness indicates that the important thing is that
entities share the information with others who have some curiosity.
Not to think that they can force C.A.C. to prove this information by
bringing it to the authorities of their state or federal government
or agencies, but to search for themselves, to see if this is
accurate.  If you have questions or doubts about the accuracy of this
information, go out and become a researcher for yourself.

     Or, if you don't wish to do so, toss the paper into
     the garbage can and forget it.  There are some entities
     who seem to think that if they hear something that
     offends them, they should turn it over to an authority
     and make the authority check out the source to see if
     it's true.

     This Awareness indicates that It is giving you the sources, so
that you can check them for yourself.  If you do not like the
information, close your ears, cease your publication, stop your
subscription, or don't bother to read it.  If you want to be aware,
if you want knowledge, if you want truth, you have to be open to
hearing even things you don't really like to hear.

     This Awareness indicates that this information isn't for
everyone; it is for the courageous, it is for the strong, it is for
the daring, it is for those who dare to be aware.  This Awareness
indicates that it is not the responsibility of C.A.C. to check the
validity of all of this information, it is simply passing along
information.  It is giving you the sources, so that you can check the
validity.

     This Awareness indicates that in checking the validity, you
don't go to the people who are unaware, and you don't check on a
whistle-blower by going to the one who's had the whistle blown
against them.  Thus, if Karen Silkwood blows the whistle on some
nuclear plant, or group of people who are causing some environmental
hazards, you don't go and ask those in charge of the creation of the
hazards whether Karen Silkwood has her facts straight.  You don't ask
the fox in the henhouse if it has seen a fox in the henhouse.

     This Awareness indicates that unless entities understand the
nature and purpose of this communication, to give them enough
information that they may search further for themselves if they so
desire---and there have been many over the years who have desired.--
in fact, almost demanded,--information about UFO's.  If the
information is given, and entities do not like the information, that
is their problem.  They simply can ignore the information.  You do
not have to attempt to rewrite the information.  If you do not like
the story War of the Worlds, turn off your radio; don't expect to be
able to rewrite the script.

     This Awareness indicates that there are many who have demanded
and requested for over a decade that this Awareness gives information
relating to the UFO phenomenon.  Such information would have likely
resulted in the death of the individuals herein present had It given
information previously.  It is only recently that even the higher
authorities have become aware of the activities of the aliens in
regard to some of these atrocities, to the point where they have had
enough dissension within their own ranks to debate whether to let the
public know.  It is only recently that a few involved in the inner
circles of knowers,--having knowledge about UFO's,--have had the
courage to release information in spite of death threats, in spite of
knowing that others have been killed for far less.

     This Awareness indicates that with this reality, with this
opportunity, this window that has suddenly opened, you who have
received the information from these entities and comments on this
from this Awareness, you are likened unto an elite, privileged few.
The chances of having such information is so remote,--less than one
in a million, or one in 50 million people at this time, know what you
know.

     This Awareness suggests you do not expect too much, and that you
help in the dissemination of such information; but that you do it in
a way that is appropriate.  This Awareness indicates that you not
endanger yourself, that you now endanger others in the way you
disseminate the information.

              -----------------------------------------



THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:

         THE ALIEN PRESENCE (PART 7)--(THE UNDERGROUND CITY)


(PART 1)

HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF FROM BEING MONITORED OR ABDUCTED BY ALIENS
                (C.A.C. General Reading, May 11, 1990)


QUESTION:


              Awareness, we're here tonight for a general C.A.C.
reading, with questions sent in by the membership.
              Does Awareness have an opening message?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness suggests that entities may take precautions in
regard to protecting themselves in the following manner.  (This is in
reference to those times in which an entity may feel the effect of a
monitoring device, or that which appears to be a monitoring energy
and they feel or hear in their ear, or feel around their head, which
occurs from time to time with some entities; that in many cases, not
all, but in many cases, this monitoring is done from alien
technology).

              How the Aliens Select Victims for Abduction

     This Awareness indicates that one may ask:  How do the aliens
select people whom they are to abduct?  This Awareness indicates that
they select these entities from vibrations in the brainwave pattern
that they seek for their particular interest or needs; that the
selection of a particular type may vary from time to time and
depending on what their purposes are, they may select a person at one
time which they would have overlooked at a different time.


     This Awareness indicates that it is possible to avoid those
brainwave patterns that aliens would seek in their selection process
by wrapping oneself in White Light.  This Awareness suggests that in
the first place, the least likely person an alien would seek would be
one whose brainwave pattern indicates a socially strong
individualistic entity.  When you have a strong identification,
knowing who in fact you really are, and have a strong connection with
the spiritual essence of the highest, without much fear and without
being easily swayed or easily influenced, you are less likely to
become a candidate for abduction.

     The more vulnerable and easily influenced you are, the more
gullible you are, the more naive you are and the more distraught your
thinking may be, the more you will tend to fit into the types of
candidates that are usually abducted.  This Awareness indicates that
having a strong will also is a negative for aliens in regard to
abduction.  Also, aliens do not, if they are involved in wishing to
use glandular substances or eat the entity, they do not like the
effects of chocolate, coffee, cigarettes, or sugar or other types of
addictive type foods and drugs in the system.  They prefer, this
especially in regard to the reptilials; they prefer the more pure
essences without toxins.  That this might be argued as a plus for
these vices.

     This Awareness indicates on the other hand, the use of drugs and
alcohol can be the very thing that would distort a person's thinking
to make them more likely to be a candidate for abduction, for other
purposes.  The best protection one can have for oneself during the
time of monitoring, because the monitoring process is designed to
read these brain vibrations; the best protection is to wrap yourself
in White Light, visualize the highest frequencies of Divinity coming
down over you from the Divine Being Itself.
     Thus, you can call on the High Self, call on the Christ, call on
God, call on anything that you see as being the Highest and Best.  If
you are in to Buddhism, call on Buddha.  If you are in to any of the
other religions, call on the highest divinity that you can call on,
and see this entity covering you with a shower of Light, wrapping you
with Divine Light energy while this monitoring is in process.  It
will sufficiently block the readings of the aliens if indeed they are
the forces monitoring you.

     This Awareness indicates that this is a psychological defense
that you may use in regard to the psychoelectronic monitoring that
aliens frequently do in their hunting process.  This Awareness
indicates the term generally used is the `harvesting' process.  They
see this action as a kind of harvesting.

(Follow-up Question):  Vikki

     When I sensed that sound in my head, I automatically, almost
like a reflex, repeated the Law of Love.  Does this afford
protection, or should I change?

COSMIC AWARENESS:


     This can be beneficial.  It can help to say the Law of Love.  It
is better to visualize the Light energy coming down over you.  If you
can incorporate the two without losing the visionary image of the
White Light coming down so that you're saying the Law of Love at the
same time, you are clearly visualizing this love being showered over
you, it can be even more effective.

       AN ACCOUNT OF SEEING UFO'S AND HEARING `CRICKED' SOUNDS

QUESTION:

     a sort of personal question from J.R., which is along this line.
She writes:  "The night I saw two saucer-shaped crafts, just outside
my bathroom window in West Virginia:  Whose craft were they and what
were they doing in my yard?  Also, was it in response to the energy
of my astonishment that they immediately took off?  Also, were they
related to other craft seen in the area, the one written up in a
local paper, the ones Dr. Jenkins said visited his family regularly;
and currently:  why am I hearing the sound of crickets whenever it is
quiet enough to hear it?  Is this an effect of meditation, stress,
UFO's or physiological malfunction?"

     COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that It suggests that you be most
attentive and cautious; that these entities were not Pleiadians; that
the Pleiadians essentially have abandoned this planet temporarily and
may not be able to return.  There are some entities from Sirius who
are benevolent beings.  These were not the entities from Sirius
either.  There are some humans in saucers from the technology that
has been acquired from the alliance with the Greys; that the Greys in
some cases are not as vicious or hostile as others.  In regard to the
entities whom you saw, it appears that these were humans of your
government testing craft in the general area without a desire to be
noticed; that they did not recognize your presence when first landing
in the area.

                 How the `Good' UFO Will Contact You


This Awareness indicates that it is very important however, to avoid
any contact with those of UFO's unless you are absolutely sure that
these are Pleiadians or from Sirius, and these entities will often
give you ways by which you can be absolutely sure.  This Awareness
indicates they will make themselves gradually known over a period of
time before contacting anyone in a close encounter.

     This Awareness indicates that they tend to set up appointments
telepathically, letting you know that they will be there at a certain
time, where to look, where to expect them.  Anything other than this
kind of appointment should be considered suspect of the more
malevolent type aliens; that the aliens will be tending, and have
tended to become more bold in their abductions and this may increase
as they are increasing in number.  This Awareness indicates the
increase of approximately 20,000 per month in recent months has been
a kind of average influx during the three days of the full moon.

                 Look for Holes or Marks on Your Body

     This Awareness indicates that these entities generally going to
the bases which then allow them to traverse underground to other
places in other areas through these underground tunnels.  Anyone who
has seen a UFO should also double-check their memory, trying to
recall if there were any marks on their body or energy weaknesses
shortly thereafter, for in many cases, an entity will see a UFO, be
abducted for a certain length of time, usually on the average of two
hours, anywhere from twenty minutes to two hours, then released, and
the entity will not remember having been abducted, but will simply
remember having seen the UFOs or whatever took place prior to the
abduction.

     This Awareness indicates that if, in examining oneself one finds
holes, such as in the back of the ear, or chin, or a pain in the
nose, or in the back of the head, or somewhere else on the body or in
the naval area or the genitalia area, there is good reason to suspect
that an abduction and experimentation or implanting has taken place.
This Awareness indicates that generally, the memory is gone, but the
subconscious effects and feeling of violation will endure and cause
severe problems thereafter.

     Most entities having been abducted benefit only from therapy
that is similar to that of rape cases.  The action being very much
like that of rape, in which an entity has been violated against his
or her will, and the feeling of having been violated can create
severe hostility and make one feel one is violated and a victim,
affecting many of the entity's relationships and activities
thereafter.  It is important for entities to get help when such an
event is realized.

     This Awareness suggests however, that it is equally important
that entities not fake an abduction just for attention, because such
action can cause you other kinds of problems that you may not really
desire.  It may be that, for example, you find yourself at some
future time being looked at as an abductee when in fact you aren't,
and in some ways, you may feel you have classified yourself into a
certain category that you no longer want to wear as a label.  This
Awareness indicates that it is not something that entities should
fake for attention or as a means of self-importance; that generally
speaking, entities could not fake the action anyway and will be
embarrassed and found out when in deeper therapy.

FOLLOW-UP QUESTION:

     Is there any significance to the cricket sound she's been
hearing?

COSMIC AWARENESS:


     This Awareness indicates that this is not seen clearly.  This
Awareness suggests the entity may wish to pursue further
investigation in this regard to determine whether this might be the
result of an implant which the entity does not recall receiving.  It
also could be the result of the close proximity of the craft and
vibration and radiation given off from the craft which may be
affecting her.  The energy is not seen as to why this is occurring, if
it still is occurring for the entity.

     This Awareness indicates the entity may wish to read THE GULF
BREEZE SIGHTINGS in which this writer tells about an attempt by the
aliens to abduct him, wherein thereafter he always heard a sound,
vibration in his head, or a hum, when the craft came anywhere near,
even though others could not hear that humming sound.  This Awareness
indicates that approximately one in thirty-five or one in forty
entities have been abducted or have in some way received implants;
that not all implants have been effected in the craft.

              How the Aliens Enter a Bedroom to Implant
               (Who are the Candidates for Implants?)

     These aliens have the ability, in wearing certain types of packs
on their backs, to move through walls or through rooftops, to come
right into one's home, even into one's bedroom, while an entity
sleeps, and to give an implant.  This is very rare that this occurs
however, and in most cases, the implants have been given to entities
who have worked in and around government operated bases or alien
operated bases, or people who work in government occupations, in
order that the aliens have some control over these entities.  That
these are the more likely candidates for implants.  It is not seen as
a likelihood that persons operating in more socially oriented
occupations, even if in government, such as the post office, or the
revenue department, or commerce department, that these would be
special candidates for implants, but more toward the types who would
work in military occupations, secret bases, or projects, or entities
working in corporations that have close contact with this type of
operation, or the families of such entities, the close-working
families, and also people who live near or around those places where
UFO government operations may be visible to the population.
     Thus, for example, the city or town of Dulce, New Mexico, as
being one in which many of the local people have been implanted and
abducted.

        THAT DEVICE THE ALIENS PACK--HOW EXACTLY DOES IT WORK?

                  (THAT FORCE THAT RESIDES IN SPACE)

(FOLLOW UP QUESTION):

     That device the aliens pack with them that enables them to get
into a home:  does this device enable them to raise their own
vibrational rate so they can enter matter, or does it raise the
vibration of the matter and allow them to enter, or just how does it
work?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates it creates a field around the entity
which makes the matter lose its density.  It is as though matter is
created by atoms in molecular structure, held together by a spatial
force.  If you were to look at matter with a high enough microscope
you would see there is more space than substance, yet there is a
force surrounding these particles that tends to bind them together,
holding them in place so that even though they are scattered apart
with great space between them, this would be equivalent, for example,
to a small ball on a football field, the substance of equating to the
space, and the actual substance of the atom being the size of a
football; that is the way atoms would appear if viewed with a
powerful enough microscope, and the question may be:  `How can these
things be held together?'

     It is that force that resides in the space and not the matter
that holds things together, and the aliens' pack is able to overcome
that force, is able to defuse that force, so that the atoms of the
body and the atoms of the wall actually pass through each other, just
as if there were no force between the spaces.  It is likened unto
sand going through a screen.  If the sand is small enough and the
screen's holes are large enough, the sand can pass through, but if
that sand is made into a ball held together by blue, and it is
placed on a screen, it can't pass through, especially if the glue has
been spread on the screen.  The glue is the force that resides
between the particles that make up the atom.

     This Awareness indicates the aliens have the technology to leave
the particles intact, but to diminish the glue that holds the objects
as solid, and this is done through the use of vibration, the raising
of certain vibrations just high enough to overcome that frequency of
the force, the glue force.


               THE TRILATERAL INSIGNIA:  AN ALIEN FLAG

QUESTION:
    A question by M.G. in New York:  "The alien flag Trilateral
insignia referred to by Cooper, is this the start of the Trilateral
group of humans and aliens?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This  Awareness indicates that the Trilateral humans took their
name from the Trilateral Insignia of the aliens.  The symbols are
different.


                   THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:  (PART 2)



      ALL ABOUT THAT ALIEN UNDERGROUND BASE AT DULCE, NEW MEXICO


QUESTION:

     There's some questions that arise from a book called:  ALIEN
MAGIC, by William F. Hamilton III, and there's a part of this book
called:  THE DULCE BASE,  by Jason Bishop the third, and I'd like to
read some of this, if it's alright, and ask Awareness to confirm or
deny this information, and when appropriate, to expand on it.*

              *ALIEN MAGIC, by William F. Hamilton III,
              published by UFORCES, 249 N. Brand Blvd.,
              Suite 651, Glendale, Calif. 91203


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this in the affirmative, that It may
from time to time raise the hand of the Interpreter to signal a pause
for comment.

     QUESTIONER:  (Begins reading):

     "The following material comes from people who know the
underground base at Dulce, New Mexico, exists.  They are people who
worked in the labs, abductees taken to the base; people who assisted
in the construction; Intelligence personnel (CIA, NSA, etc.) and UFO
and Inner-Earth researchers.  This information is meant for those who
are seriously interested in the Dulce Base.  For your own protection,
be advised to `USE CAUTION' while investigating this complex."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness suggests not only that entities, particularly in
your organization, use caution, but that they NOT investigate this
complex; that it is too well guarded; that only those who have
clearance will be allowed in, and for entities not to think that they
can simply run down there and explore the area.  This Awareness
mentions this because there are all types of people in your
membership and some tend to be quite naive, and often want to express
an unusual sense of adventure based on that naivete.
     This Awareness indicates that entities so inclined might not
return, and might end up being part of the experimentation conducted
at the base.

READING CONTINUES:

     "This facility is a `GENETICS LAB' and is connected to Los
Alamos, via a Tube-Shuttle (underground).  Part of their research is
related to the Genetic Effects of Radiation (Mutations and Human
Genetics).  Research there also includes other `Intelligent Species'
(Alien biological Life Forms `Entities').


     In the revised Sept.  1950 edition of THE EFFECTS OF ATOMIC
WEAPONS, prepared for and in cooperation with the U.S. Dept. of
Defense and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, under the direction of
the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, we read about how "complete
underground placement of bases is desirable."  On page 381:  "There
are apparently no fundamental difficulties in construction and
operating underground various types of important facilities.  Such
facilities must be placed in a suitable existing mine or a site may
be excavated for the purpose."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this as accurate; that this kind of
underground networking has gone on, not only during this previous
century from the time of World War II as mentioned, but that there
are and have been other underground caverns created by the aliens
many hundreds and thousands of years prior to this time, and these
have been used along with the present excavations and mining
activities of government and alien technologies.  This Awareness
reminds you of readings given some ten years ago regarding the
subterranean caverns; that many of these were man-made caverns, and
some were natural, but had been modified by machines of the more
advanced technologies of the subterranean aliens.*



                *`Revelations of Awareness' No. 79-25:
                      (The Secret of the UFOs).

     This Awareness indicates the Deros described during that time
are remnants of a humanoid species that were left underground for
many generations.  They have continued in their underground
civilization which, through a network of caverns and tunnels extends
throughout the United States, South America and in through Europe and
other regions.  These tunnels have been known by the Illuminati,
which was formed in 1776 on May 1st, by Adam Weishaupt, which is the
reason for the May 1st celebration in many countries; that this
Illuminati as the foundation for many of the occult and conspiracy
type organizations that have followed.  It was based on the alien
contact by these entities.

     This Awareness indicates, of course, there were still earlier
contacts with aliens on this planet, these contacts researching back
into prehistory.  This Awareness suggests the questions continue.

(READING CONTINUES):
     "Centuries ago, Surface People (some say the Illuminati) entered
into a pact with an "Alien Nation" (hidden within the Earth).  The
U.S. government, in 1933, agreed to trade animals and humans in
exchange for High Tech knowledge, and to allow them to use
(undisturbed) underground bases, in the Western USA.  A Special Group
was formed to deal with the Alien Beings.  In the 1940's `Alien Life
Forms' (ALF) began shifting their focus of operations, from Central
and South America, to the USA.  The Continental Divide is vital to
these `Entities'.  Part of this has to do with Magnetics (Substrata
Rock) and high Energy States (Plasma)."


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This is in the affirmative.  This Awareness indicates that this
shift into this area was partly due to the use of the atomic bomb in
its infancy; the first atomic bomb being exploded in Alamogordo.
That this drew great attention from the aliens and in realizing that
these aliens use underground caverns, one can understand why they
became quite concerned with atomic bombs blowing holes in the earth,
and would like to have some input on the government using such
weapons.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Whose Planet is This?  These Aliens consider themselves `Native
Terrans'".  They are an ancient race (descendant from a Reptilian
Humanoid Species which cross-bred with Sapient Humans).

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this is in reference, not to all
types of Greys, but to some of the Greys; the Greys from Orion in
particular; that there are also other variations which do not have
much of the reptilian genetics in them, but have some insect base.
This Awareness indicates that the Greys who were present after World
War II, who were present in this pact with the U.S. government, and
the Greys who were present...This Awareness indicates there were
Greys present on this planet in contact with humans in the late
Twenties and early Thirties, but there were also other tall Greys
that came to this planet in the period of approximately 1947-48;
these being from Orion.

     The Zeta Reticuli Greys, coming in contact more in the Sixties;
that the earlier Greys as having already been in the area, and the
pact which led to the underground cavern bases was with these and
also with the tall Orion Greys.  Later, the Zeta Reticuli were
brought in to certain agreements and allowed to have bases and there
were further arrangements with them.  They are all interrelated in
some ways as different species, in a similar manner that on earth
different races might still work together, though be somewhat
segregated and somewhat different from each other.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "They are untrustworthy manipulator/mercenary agents for another
extraterrestrial culture (the Draco), who are returning to earth
(their ancient `outpost') to use it as a staging area.

     But, these alien cultures are in conflict over whose agenda will
be followed for this planet.  All the while mental control is being
used to keep humans `in place,' especially since the Forties."

COSMIC AWARENESS:


     This Awareness indicates this is in the affirmative; that there
is the conflict and agreement between the Grey Reticuli and the
Reptilians; that of the Grey Reticuli, the orange group as being the
more hostile to the Reptilians; that it is also the more hostile
group in regard to Grey/human relationships.  This Awareness
indicates, however, that it does offer a potential for shifting of
alliances between the Greys and the humans, since the orange Grey
group is quite hostile to the Reptilians, it offers the humans an
important opportunity to align themselves with the Greys and a
potential for the alliance to be used in case of a conflict with the
Reptilians.

     This Awareness indicates that it would appear that there is the
potential of a situation occurring on this planet in which if the
Reptilians arrive, the human race would not survive for any
meaningful length of time in any quality of life.  It would, it
appears, deteriorate in such a manner that the human race would
simply become useful as food for the Reptilians; this in the event
sufficient numbers of Reptilians came and were able to control the
masses of humans, and through their present allies, the Greys, it
would appear this would be possible.  Without the alliance between
the Greys and the humans, it would appear that the Reptilians would
have very little obstruction to their total dominion of the planet.

     This Awareness indicates there is still the element of the
Pleiadians and the entities from Sirius, as a potential, but that
this is not at present seen as being a great potential, since
especially the Pleiadians are in deep trouble at home.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "The DULCE Complex is joint U.S. Government/Alien base.  It was
NOT the first built with the aliens.  (Others are in Colorado,
Nevada, Arizona, etc.)"

Is that correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This is in the affirmative.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "The Secret Activity".  Paul Benewitz reports, about his study
into the Dulce area:  "Troops went in and out of there every summer,
starting in 1947.  The natives do recall that.  They also built a
road--right in front of the people of Dulce, and trucks went in and
out for a long period.  That road was later blocked and destroyed.
The signs on the trucks were "Smith Corporation" out of Pagosa
Springs, Colorado.  No such corporation exists now...no records
exist...I believe the Base, at least the first one, was being built
then undercover of a lumbering project.  The problem:  they never
hauled logs.  Only BIG equipment."


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this is in the affirmative; that there
also was built an underground tunnel from the area of Alamogordo to
the base.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "R & R and the Military Industrial Complex.  The Rand
Corporation became involved and did a study for the Base.  Most of
the lakes near Dulce were made `for' the Indians, via government
grants.  Navajo Dam is the main source for conventional electric
power, with a second source in El Vado (also an entrance).

     Note:  If Rand Corp. is the mother of `Think Tanks', then the
Ford Foundation must be considered the father.  Rand secrecy is not
confirmed to `reports,' but on occasion extends to conferences and
meetings.  On page number 645 of the PROJECT RAND: Proceedings of the
Deep Underground Construction Symposium (March, 1959) we read:

     "Just as airplanes, ships and automobiles have given man mastery
of the surface of the Earth, tunnel-Boring Machines...will give him
access to the subterranean World."

     Note:  The Sept. 1983 issue of Omni magazine (Page 80) has a
color drawing of "The SUBTERRENE", the Los Alamos nuclear-powered
tunnel machine that burrows through the rock, deep underground, by
heating whatever stone it encounters into molten rock (magma), which
cools after the Subterrene has moved on.  The result is a tunnel with
a smooth, glazed lining."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this, using atomic energy in the
process of heating these rocks, not only melts the rocks to allow for
the tunneling to take place, but it reduces the magma of these melted
rocks in terms of size so that there is very little or no residue
which needs to be carried out of the tunnel, so that the hole itself
is simply plastered up against the sides of the tunnel in a kind of
melted shell.

(FOLLOW UP QUESTION):

     That would account for the absence of great piles of dirt and
rocks in that area, wouldn't it?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This is in the affirmative.

(CONTINUING WITH THE STATEMENT):

     "These underground tubes are used by electromagnetically powered
"Subshuttle Vehicles," which can travel at great speeds.  They
connect the `Hidden Empire' Sub-City complexes.  Also, the top-secret
project code-named "Noah's Ark," uses `Tube Shuttles' in connection
with a system of over 100 `Bunkers' and `Bolt Holes' which have been
established at various places on Earth.  With other bases inside the
Moon and Mars.  Many of these underground cities are complete with
streets, sidewalks, lakes, small electric cars, apartments, offices
and shopping malls."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this is in the affirmative.  This
Awareness reminds you that there have been numerous movies that have
covered many of the things that are now being exposed as realities.
You will recall the movie in which the entity had his ear down to the
sidewalk, hearing tunnels or hearing a machine underground, boring
the earth, boring a tunnel, and everyone thought the entity was
insane.  This Awareness indicates that there have been numerous
efforts by some entities to leak information, in some ways to alert
the public of these various things.

     This Awareness indicates that most of the information went into
movies that were seen as fantasy, and entities were entertained
rather than informed, but now that entities are becoming informed and
looking back on the entertainment that has been given during the past
several decades, these movies will begin to take on a new meaning.
This Awareness indicates JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH, as well
as many of the movies regarding duplicates and clones now have new
meaning.  Also, that in looking back on the earlier Awareness
readings in which It spoke of synthetics and robotoids, entities will
see that these too take on a new meaning.  This Awareness suggests
the questions continue.

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "I had one question about the shopping malls.  Are these
designed for humans that are working underground there, or are these
used by aliens?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this as mostly for humans, but
that there also are some shopping places for aliens too; that some
instances of human/alien intermingling is present underground, but in
most cases, in the higher levels, it is more a human-type of society,
although in some cases, the more benevolent aliens will also be found
in certain areas, intermingling with humans, even in those levels.
That in the deeper levels, the aliens have greater domination.

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "This tunnel machine mentioned that uses atomic energy and
burrows, melting the rock; was this technology given to the United
States by the aliens, or did the United States develop that itself?"


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that it is an alien machine.  This has
been used down through centuries.  It has been modified, but the
concept and the initial construction as that which is alien.  The
more recent development as being a joint construction for and by
humans and aliens in cooperation.  There are more than one such
machine.  This Awareness indicates that these machines however, use
technology that were of alien origin, along with other aspects that
can be understood by human engineers.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "There were over 650 attendees to the 1959 RAND Symposium.  Most
were representatives of the Corporate-Industrial State, like:  The
General Electric Company; AT & T; Hughes Aircraft; Northrop Corp.;
Sandia Corp.; Stanford Research Institute; Walsh Construction
Company; The Bechtel Corporation; Colorado School of Mines; etc.

     Bechtel (pronounced Beck-tull) in a supersecret international
corporate octopus, founded in 1898.  Some say the firm is really a
"SHADOW GOVERNMENT"--a working arm of the CIA.  It is the largest
construction and engineering outfit in the USA and the world, (and
some say, beyond).

     The most important posts in the U.S. government are held by
former Bechtel officers.  They are part of "THE WEB" (an
interconnected control system) which links the Tri-Lateralist plans,
the CFR, the Orders of `Illuminism' (Cult of the All-Seeing Eye) and
other interlocking groups."

     Is that information correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this is in the affirmative; that
you will recall, especially during the Reagan administration, the
scandals associated with many of his cronies, and the connections
with Bechtel; that in reviewing these, you will find the above
information being pertinent.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "The Dulce Facility consists of a central `Hub,' the Security
Section, (also some photo labs).  The deeper you go, the stronger the
Security.  This is a multi-leveled Complex.  There are over 3000
cameras at various high-security locations (Exits and Labs).  There
are over 100 Secret Exits near and around Dulce.  Many around
Archuleta Mesa, others to the south around Dulce Lake and even as far
east as Lindrith."

     Is that correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:


     This is in the affirmative.  This Awareness indicates that there
are caves used by aliens throughout the United States, Canada and
South America, as well as in Europe.  Many of these are small bases
inside mountains that are in more remote areas; that there are
underground tunnels connecting many of these.  In some cases, the
openings are used for the spacecraft for entrance and exits in
isolated bases, but in most cases, the bases are connected by
underground tunnels.  These extend also into Washington, Oregon,
Canada, the Aleutian Islands, into Russia, and into most other
countries, especially in the Northern hemisphere of Europe; a;so in
Australia and New Zealand.  There are older bases in South America, in
Brazil, in Central America, and in the areas of Chile, Venezuela, and
Peru.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Deep sections of the Complex connect into natural cavern
systems.  A person who worked at the Base, who had an `ULTRA 7`
clearance, reports:  "There may be more than seven Levels, but I only
know of seven.  Most of the aliens are on levels 5, 6, and 7."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates there ten levels; that the three lower
levels have to do with the construction of technological instruments
and craft.


(READING CONTINUES):

     "...Alien housing is lever 5."  Is this correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This as in the affirmative; this as the level where the aliens
live and interact together in their time when they are not involved
in their activities of industry.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "We are leaving the era of expendable resources, like oil-based
products.  The power of the future is re-newable resources...
"Biologically Engineered."  The Dulce Genetic Research was originally
funded under the cloak of "Black Budget" Secrecy.  (Billions of
dollars.)

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This is where the drugs and drug money has been flowing to.
This Awareness indicates that this as also having received much
funding from the NSA hidden agenda and purposes; that much of the
enormous tax assessment on the nation and the great debt that has
accumulated over the years is due to this funding.


(READING CONTINUES):

     "They were interested in intelligent "Disposable Biology"
(Humanoids), to do the dangerous atomic (Plutonium) rocket and saucer
experiments.

     "We cloned "our" own little Humanoids, via a process perfected
in the Bio-Genetic Research Center of the World, Los Alamos!

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this relates to the synthetics and in
Russia, to the robotoids; that the reading continue.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Now, we have our own `disposable' slave-race.  Like the alien
`Greys' (EBES), the U.S. government clandestinely impregnated
females, then removed the hybrid fetus, (after about 3 months) and
then accelerated their growth in the Lab.  Biogenetic (DNA
Manipulation) programming is instilled; they are `implanted' and
controlled at a distance through regular RF (Radio Frequency)
transmissions.  These act as telepathic "Channels" and telemetric
brain (Advanced Research Project Agency).  Two of the procedures were
R.H.I.C. (Radio-Hypnotic Intracerebral Memory).  The brain
transceiver is inserted into the head through the nose.  These
devices are used in the Soviet Union and the United States, as well
as in Sweden.  The Swedish Prime Minister Palme gave the National
Swedish Police Board the right, in 1973, to insert brain transmitters
into the heads of human beings covertly.

     They also developed ELF and E.M. wave propagation equipment
(RAYS), which can affect the nerves and can cause nausea, fatigue,
irritability, even death.  This is essentially the same as Richard
Shaver's Cavern "Telaug" Mech.  This research into biodynamic
relationships within organisms ("Biological Plasma") has produced a
RAY that can change the "genetic structure" and "HEAL" also."

     Is that information correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

                  How Dr. Beter Got His Information


              This Awareness indicates that this is correct; that the
instruments which Dr. Beter once spoke of in his Audio Letters as
being able to locate and determine what anyone on earth was doing at
any time, is an instrument that was just spoken of, that was made
available through his contacts with scientists in Nevada; that they
were using these instruments in order to supply him with information
for his Audio Letters.  You will recall that often he spoke of
entities who would allegedly be at some place, but by his sources
would be found to be elsewhere, such as Jim Jones actually being
flown to Israel and being thrown out of a plane near the Turkish
boarder, and other instances of a similar nature, wherein entities
were believed by press releases and so forth to be in a certain
place, and Dr. Beter would indicate that they were truly elsewhere.

     This Awareness indicates that this also allowed them to
distinguish between the real entity and a duplicate, a double who was
replacing that entity, because the vibration of that double would be
slightly altered and different.  This Awareness indicates that Dr.
Beter also was able to distinguish the difference between a robotoid,
synthetic and human, because the human had a soul at the time; that
in his later reports and in further technology, the robotoids were
even being given a soul.

     This Awareness indicates that this occurred through further
alien technology in which the soul of an entity can be severed from
the body and implanted into another's body.  It is a technology that
allows for the Walk-In.  It also allows for the soul to be put into a
duplicate body, a robotoid for example, so that the soul can continue
to exist after the first body has been eliminated, and in this kind
of action it is almost the same as if the entity had received a new
body.  That in this sense, and for the purposes of changing the
entity from one body to another, the reason for such might be, for
example, to alter the memory or alter the philosophy of an entity in
moving it from one body to another, by erasing certain aspects of
memory.

     This Awareness indicates you will recall that the memory is
stored in the etheric, between the mental and etheric bodies, and
that it can be altered in the human.  It can also be erased, and by
taking the soul and these bodies from one physical body and putting
them into another replica of the physical body, they can actually
bring about a changed person with a different philosophy or different
values, and yet the entity would essentially be the same personality.
This Awareness indicates that perhaps this can answer many questions
that entities have had, in regard to past notable figures that have
been indicated by Dr. Beter as having been replaced by duplicate
bodies.  This Awareness suggests the reading continue.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Warning:  Manipulation and Control, Fear and Favor...The
Pentagon, the CIA, NSA, FBI,DEA, NSC, etc. seek to capitalize on the
beliefs of the American public.  The Secret Government is getting
ready to `stage' a contact-landing with Aliens in the near future.
This way they can `Control' the release of Alien related propaganda.
We will be told of an inter-stellar conflict.  But...what looks real,
may be FAKE.  What is disinformation?  Is your attention being
diverted by the strategy of a `Shadow Plan'?"

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this refers to the scenario
described in Stan Deyo's book, THE COSMIC CONSPIRACY, as that which
would be a staged version, using the beliefs of the American people
in regard to the BOOK OF REVELATION, wherein entities would be
expecting the return of Christ after some kind of event or situation
that might lead to a kind of Armageddon.  This Awareness indicates
that the only thing about this is that there is, in fact the threat
of the Reptilian invasion; these entities coming in a planetoid which
does not travel at above-light speed; this because of such great
number of entities, in needing a planetoid for the transference of
the population.

     This Awareness indicates that if the so-called invasion occurs
before 1996, and especially if it occurs around 1993, entities can
probably be correct in assuming it is staged.  It may be staged to
set up the atmosphere for a One World Government.  If it is held off
until approximately 1996 or `97 or thereafter, then entities can
presume it is probably for real, as by that time the Reptilians
would have made their approach, would be close enough to pose a real
threat.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Berkeley, Los Alamos Labs Chosen to Explore Makeup of Human
Genome.  (Overt and Covert Research).  As U.S. Energy Secretary, John
Harrington, named the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and New Mexico's
Los Alamos National Laboratory to house new advanced genetic research
centers as part of a project to decipher the human genome.  The
genome holds the genetically coded instructions that guide the
transformation of a single cell--a fertilized egg--into a Biological
Being.  "The Human Genome Project may well have the greatest direct
impact on a humanity of any scientific initiative before us today,"
said David Shirley, Director of the Berkeley Laboratory."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this is the exploration of the
genes and all of the codes that go into creating the various
lifeforms based on the patterns involved in the code of the molecular
structures that make up the genes.  This Awareness indicates that
there has been some research; that approximately 15% of this genetic
coding has been researched by your universities, and the
research being classified in such a way as to allow them to splice,
remove, delete, add to that genetic code in order to create changes
in the code, that it can be used for destroying or creating diseases,
destroying or creating lifeforms, destroying or creating plants,
animals or whatever that may be tampered with genetically.

     This Awareness indicates that it can also be used to modify any
of these things; thus, it has the potential for altering all forms of
life, for good or ill, and for creating all types of life in
different forms.  This Awareness indicates that the effort is to may
out and decode all of the DNA, and in so doing, have complete control
over the lifeforms and the creation, modification or destruction for
these forms.  It is through this information that many of the
creatures described on Level 6 in Nightmare Hall, such as the many-
legged human, were created genetically.


          Atlantean Genetics:  The Creation of the "Things"



     This awareness indicates that you will recall the Edgar Cayce
readings, in the readings on Atlantis, in which he described the
"Things" which the Atlanteans created.  These were grossly distorted
creatures; that the `Things" that were created became a part of
society.  These were also entities who were the product of alien
technology in the time of Atlantis.  This Awareness indicates that
these creations were also grotesque and of those things which are
common to humans today;--the cat and the pig were direct creations of
Atlantean genetics.

     This Awareness indicates that the pig having some human genes
intermixed with earlier wild boar.  The cat, being created from genes
that had belonged to the Greys.  You will notice the cat-like eyes of
the Greys; these were incorporated into the genes used for creating
the cat.  This also is a reason why there were cat societies,
societies that worshipped the cat, thinking they were a kind of
reflection of the gods of the time, many entities seeing these Grey
aliens as gods.

     This Awareness suggests the reading continue.


          WHY PORK IS CONSIDERED "UNCLEAN MEAT" BY THE JEWS

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "I was wondering if these human genes in the pig could possibly
be connected to the ancient Jewish philosophy that pork is unclean
meat and should not be eaten?"

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this as in the affirmative; that
there is also the concern about the cloven hoof; that entities were
permitted to eat food of a certain type, but not from those animals
having a cloven hoof.  The cloven hoof also has been associated with
the devil.  This Awareness reminds you also that the Grey aliens have
two toes.  This Awareness indicates that the entities cloning the
Hebrews were of a type that were what you might call enemies of the
Greys, and did not want their clones fraternizing with or being
associated with the Greys or anything that had connection with them,
also did not want them eating food that had human genes in it, such
as the pig.

               ----------------------------------------


      
         THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:  (PART 3)..."NIGHTMARE HALL"


(READING CONTINUES):

     This overlaps some information just given by Awareness.

     "Covertly, this research has been going on for years at Dulce
Labs.  Level No. 6 is privately called "Nightmare Hall," it holds the
Genetic Labs.  Reports from workers who have seen bizarre
experimentation are as follows:
     "I have seen multi-legged `humans' that look like half
human/half-octopus.  Also Reptilian-humans, and furry creatures that
have hands like humans and cries like a baby; it mimics human
words...also huge mixtures of Lizard-humans in cages."  There are
fish, seals, birds and mice that can barely be considered those
species.  There are several cages (and vats) of Winged-humanoids,
grotesque bat-like creatures, but 3-1/2 to 7 feet tall.  Gargoyle-
like beings and Draco-Reptoids."

     Is that information true?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this scratches the surface.  There are
far more grotesque creatures than were described.

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     Isn't that the very thing that brought down Atlantis?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This as in the affirmative.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Level 7 is worse:  row after row of thousands of humans and
human-mixtures in cold storage.  Here too are embryo storage vats of
Humanoids, in various stages of development.

     "I frequently encountered humans in cages, usually dazed or
drugged, but sometimes they cried and begged for help.  We were told
they were hopelessly insane, and involved in high risk tests to cure
insanity.

     "We were told to never try to speak to them at all.  At the
beginning we believed that story.  Finally, in 1978, a small group of
workers discovered the truth.  It began the `Dulce Wars,' (and a
secret resistance Unit was formed)."

     Note:  There are over 18,000 `Aliens' at the Dulce Base.


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates there are closer to 200,000 aliens at
this time; that approximately 100,000 in the Dulce base, and 100,000
more that have moved through the base to other bases; these
continuing to enter at a rate of about 20,000 per month.  This
Awareness indicates the base at Ada, Oklahoma, as still being active;
this being approached from underground; that the recent floods in
that area as having been in part deliberately allowed to help slow
and hinder activities at the base.

     This Awareness indicates that the government as being divided;
that one faction wishes to stop the aliens from further growth and
the other faction wishing to work with the aliens, collaborating with
them.  The aliens wishing to move their entire population from their
dying planet to this one as quickly as possible, even prior to the
arrival of the Draco Reptilians.  (This Awareness suggests the
reading continue).

(READING CONTINUES):

     "In late 1979, there was a confrontation (over weapons), a lot of
scientists and military personnel were killed.  The base was closed
for a while...but, it is currently active.

     Note: Human and animal abductions (for their blood and other
parts) slowed in the mid-1980s, when the Livermore Berkeley labs
began production of artificial blood for Dulce.

     William Cooper states:  "A clash occurred wherein 66 of our
people, from the National Recon Group, the DELTA group, which is
responsible for security of all alien-connected projects, were
killed.

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this occurred in more places than
the Dulce base; that in many other areas there were raids by humans
into these alien bases, and skirmishes and activities in which many
of these aliens were killed, or their bases shut down.  This
Awareness indicates that even here in your  own state of Washington,
and also in Oregon, this type of thing occurred; that it was in
connection with a group working through the CIA, and that this did
begin to have some effect.

     This Awareness indicates, however, that there was also a split
in the intelligence bureaus, it appears came from MJ 12, in which
there was one faction that wanted this conflict to stop immediately,
and collaboration to continue; and because of this in-fighting within
the agency, many of those agents who were working to hinder the
aliens, resulted in their being covertly eliminated, especially those
who had special skills in this area of raiding these caves.

(READING CONTINUES):


     "The DELTA Group (Within the Intelligence Support Activity) have
been seen with badges which have a black triangle on a red
background.  (DELTA is the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet)."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this is in the affirmative; that these
entities are often witnessed as the group using black helicopters;
that the movie versions of the Delta Force, as that which was based
on rumors that such a force existed; these being particularly related
to UFO and alien concerns and not to raid into other countries as a
kind of SWAT team organization; this not being their purpose, as
depicted in movies.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "It has the form of a triangle, and figures prominently in
certain Masonic signs.  Each base has its own symbol.  The Dulce base
symbol is a triangle with the Greek letter (Tau) `T' within it, and
then the symbol is inverted, so the triangle points down.  The
insignia of `a triangle and 3 lateral lines' has been seen on
`Saucer (transport) Craft,'--the Tri-lateral symbol.  Other symbols
mark landing sites and Alien craft.

     And they draw some of the symbols here that look like Indian
teepees and so forth.  Is this information correct?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this is the affirmative; that these
symbols appear to be correct in regard to the connection described.
This Awareness indicates that the Greek symbols relate back to
symbols from Akkadia, and even back to symbols of Sumeria, and these
were given as symbols of Sumeria, and these were given as symbols
from the aliens of that time; thus the symbols are a kind of link
between alien and modern human language, neither quite alien, nor
neither quite English, but of a language that many who have been
educated in your modern schools can easily find and adjust to in
using the Greek symbols.

     The aliens also then have the capacity of adjusting their
language or symbolic writings into Greek, which is not too difficult
for them, and the humans to use as a mediating written language, in
terms of symbols.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "Inside the Dulce Base, Security officers wear jump-suits, with
the Dulce symbol on the front upper left side.  The standards hand-
weapon at Dulce, is a `Flash gun,' which is good against humans and
aliens.  The I.D. card (used in card slots for the doors and
elevators) has the Dulce symbol above the I.D. photo.  "Government
Honchos" use cards with the Great Seal of the U.S. on it.  "The Cult
of the All-Seeing Eye" (The New World Order)...13, "666" -the Phoenix
Empire..."9"..."Illuminism,"...`One out of many.'"

COSMIC AWARENESS:
                      How the Flash-Gun Operates

     This Awareness indicates that this as in the affirmative; that
in regard to the flash gun; that this as being likened unto a kind of
laser ray-gun; that it is a real life version of the Star Trek
phaser; the difference being that the flash-gun works in such a way
that the entity doesn't simply die from the blast, but is dried up.
This Awareness indicates that there is the potential for setting the
flash-gun to different frequencies or different ranges of
temperature; that its most intense range as that which immediately
dissolves or evaporates all water in the body, causing a body to
shrivel up totally, so that nothing in the sense of liquid within the
body is present.
     Thus, the entity literally burns up at whatever speed is
appropriate according to the setting of the flash-gun; very quickly
or very slowly.  It is essentially a death ray that works on the
water in the body.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "After the second level, everyone is weighed, in the nude, then
given a uniform.  `Visitors' are given an `off white' uniform.  In
front of ALL sensitive areas are scales built under the doorway, by
the door control.  The person's care must match with the weight and
code or the door won't open.  Any discrepancy in weight (any change
over three pounds) will summon Security.  No one is allowed to carry
anything into or out of sensitive areas.  All supplies are put thru a
Security conveyer system.  The alien symbol language appears alot at
the facility.

     During the construction of the Facility (which was done in
stages, over many years), the aliens assisted in the design and
construction materials.  Many of the things assembled by the workers
were of a technology they could not understand, yet...it would
function when fully put together.  Example:  The elevators have no
cables.  They are controlled magnetically.  The magnetic system is
inside the walls.

     There are no conventional electrical controls.  All is
controlled by advanced magnetics.  That includes a magnetically
induced (phosphorescent) illumination system.  There are no regular
light bulbs.  All exits are magnetically controlled.  Note:  It has
been reported that, "if you place a large magnet on an entrance, it
will affect an immediate interruption.  They will have to come and
reset the system."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates this is in the affirmative; that there
is a totally different advancement in terms of technology used by
these entities in regard to an advancement that worked from the base
of electro-magnetics without the use of wires, whereas your
technology transferred electricity through wires and created a system
along different lines.  There was less mechanical activity in their
technology, and more electronic and magnetic technology, and more
electronic and magnetic technology development.

     This Awareness indicates the lighting system used as that which
is painted upon the walls, or placed on the walls in a kind of paint
which is affected by an electromagnetic charge that is applied, which
causes the wall to light,---this affecting the paint on the walls and
the substances that are in that painted material.

(QUESTIONER):

     The Interpreter's been in trance for quite a while, and we would
like to bring him up at this time and continue this reading later, if
it is alright with Awareness.

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This as in the affirmative.  This Awareness suggests that this
may be seen as a break; that the questions may continue after a brief
interruption from our sponsor.

(The Law of Gratitude is given)

              -----------------------------------------


    THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:  (PART 4)...THE DARK SIDE OF TECHNOLOGY


(READING CONTINUES...after dinner):

     "The town of Dulce.  The area around Dulce has had a high number
of reported animal mutilations.  The government and the aliens used
the animals for environmental tests, psychological warfare on people,
etc.  The aliens also wanted large amounts of blood for Genetic,
Nutritional and other reasons.

     "In the book, ET's and UFOs--They Need Us, We Don't Need Them,
by Virgil `Posty' Armstrong, he reports how his friends (Bob and
Sharon) stopped for the night in Dulce and went out to dinner.  "They
overheard some local residents openly and vociferously discussing
extra-terrestrial abduction of townspeople for purposes of
experimentation."  The ET's had our government's knowledge and
approval."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this is in the affirmative; that
in any of those areas near those bases there is an excessive degree
of danger of abduction or otherwise intimidation.  That in regard to
the aliens' need for large amounts of blood, there is recently a
scientific breakthrough in regard to the use of cattle blood being
altered to work for human transfusions; that the use of cattle blood
in humans is a possibility on a one-time basis, without such
alteration.  With the alteration, it can be repeatedly used without
side effects; that within approximately 5 years there will be no need
for a blood transfusion from the use of human blood.

     This Awareness indicates that part of this is a side-effect from
the experimentation that involves alien technology and the cattle and
human mutilations and the researches into the different types of
blood.  This Awareness indicates that much of the blood supplied to
the aliens could be supplied from slaughterhouses, were this to be
more organized, and this would help to prevent much of the mutilation
that otherwise occurs.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "In the Fifties, the EBES (Greys) began taking large numbers of
humans for experiments.  By the Sixties, the rate was speeded up and
they began getting careless (they didn't care).  By the Seventies,
their true colors were very obvious, but the "Special Group" of the
government still kept covering up for them.

     "By the Eighties, the government realized there was no defense
against the Greys, so programs were enacted to prepare the public for
open contact with non-human `Alien Beings.'

     "The Greys and the `Reptoids' are in league with each other.
But, their relationship is in a state of tension.  The Greys' only
known enemy is the Reptilian race, and they are on their way to
earth.  (Inside a Planetoid)."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness wishes entities to reflect back in regard to
these time segments in the previous paragraph, to reflect back in
regard to the attitude of the government toward the Greys in the
50's, 60's, and 70's, and you will see also that during such time
periods, the presentation of the aliens, in terms of any release of
information about aliens, tended to fit into the categories that the
government attitude held toward the aliens.  The first attitude being
that they were benevolent people who were on a kind of friendly basis
with humanity, but as the time passed, this recognition reaching a
turning point in the 70's, in the late 70's and into the 80's,
wherein it was discovered that they were involved with excessive
human mutilation and abductions.

     This Awareness indicates that what disturbed the government even
more was that they were deceptive to the government also.  They were
breaking rules with the government in that they were supposed to be
giving a trade for technology.  Efforts to fly the craft resulted in
many of the pilots being killed in the testing of the craft, and also
the Russians were being given technology which had been forbidden in
the agreements between the American government and the aliens.  This
Awareness indicates that there were many groups in the 70's who
represented the aliens as being really nice, wonderful people,
rescuers of humanity.  Even the movie, ET, was an attempt by the
government to present the image of aliens as being nice characters
from outer space.  This was before the government discovered what
rascals they really were.

     This Awareness suggests that last few sentences of that previous
paragraph be repeated; that this not necessarily be typed on your
final manuscript; this being for reference to this Awareness, for
further comment.

(Last two sentences are re-read)

     This Awareness indicates that there is also some tension between
the Greys and the Dero.  This reference to the Grey's only known
enemy; this in reference to certain elements of the Greys,
particularly the orange group which is generally hostile anyway.
This Awareness indicates that the reference to the Reptoids in the
planetoid, this as being accurate and having been discussed elsewhere
in other readings.  These entities coming from Draco:  the number
being approximately 40 million.  This Awareness also indicates that
the element 115, which is available through the alien government
alliance, is capable of being useful in a kind of doomsday weapon
against the planetoid.

(READING CONTINUES):

"Mind Manipulation Experiments:  The Dulce  base has studied Mind
Control Implants; Bio-Psi Units; ELF Devices capable of mood, sleep
and heartbeat control, etc.

     D.A.R.P.A. (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) is using
these technologies to manipulate people.  They establish `The
Projects,' set priorities, coordinate efforts and guide the many
participants in these undertakings.  Related projects are studied at
Sandia Base by "The JASON Group" of 55 scientists.  They have
secretly harnessed the Dark Side of technology and hidden the
beneficial technology from the public.

     Other projects take  place at "Area 51" in Nevada.  "Dreamland"
(Data Repository Establishment and Maintenance Land"); ELMINT
(Electro-magnetic Intelligence); CODE EMPIRE; CODE EVA; PROGRAM HIS;
(Hybrid Intelligence System); BW/CW; IRIS (Infrared Intruder
Systems); BI-PASS; REP-TILES; etc."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that these areas and names as related
to various aspects of various programs and locations; that the
reference to Groom Lake(?) and DREAMLAND can be researched in the
work of Lazar, the release of information from Lazar, and other
sources.  This Awareness indicates that entities can do much of this
researching for themselves into the meaning of some of these; that
some of these terms are not defined clearly in publicly-released
information.  This Awareness indicates that the information on
Element 115 as having been given in some of the earlier literature
also released by Lazar, and also to some degree, there are mentions
in the Cooper Material.

     This Awareness suggests that entities can further research these
areas for more details if they are inclined to do so.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "The studies on Level No. 4 at Dulce, include Human-Aura
Research, as well as all aspects of Dream, Hypnosis, Telepathy, etc.
They know how to manipulate the Bio-plasmic Body (of Man).
They can lower your heart beat with deep sleep `Delta Waves,' induce
a static shock, then re-program via a Brain-Computer link.  They can
introduce data and programmed reactions into your mind (Information
impregnation-the "Dream Library."

     We are entering an era of the technologicalization of psychic
powers.

     The development of techniques to enhance man/machine
communications; Nano-tech; Bio-tech micro-machines; Psi-War; E.D.O.M.
(Electronic Dissolution of Memory); R.H.I.C. (Radio-Hypnotic Intra-
Cerebral Control); and various forms of behavior control (via
chemical agents, ultra-sonics, optical and other EM radiations).  The
Physics of `Consciousness.'

COSMIC AWARENESS:

                How Robotoids & Synthetics are Created


     This Awareness indicates that it is also on this level that the
technique whereby souls can be extracted from the physical and
transferred into other bodies or into replicas occurs.  That in the
transference there can also be the alteration of memories, values and
qualities of the soul, so that an entity can appear to be the same,
but there will be certain changes that have occurred that may be
unseen, and the attitude and purposes and directions of the entity
may then be controlled.

     This Awareness indicates that this occurs when the vibratory
qualities of a soul are extracted by these electronic equipment from
a body and moved into another.  This needs not necessarily be a
replica of the entity; it can be a totally different person's body,
in which case it becomes what is termed a walk-in.  This Awareness
indicates that if it is a replica, it will tend to work with the
replica to create the final features that result in a duplication of
the features of the entity.

     That this generally takes place on the almost human form, when
the mind-state or soul energies, including the various electro-body
energies are transferred, and as they begin to grow and attach
themselves to that almost human form.  The features then begin to
solidify, to match the features of the electro-magnetic energies and
the soul energies and astral energies and other mental and etheric
bodies of the older original being.

     This Awareness indicates that in the book of Genesis, which
states that God made Adam from clay, molded him; this was a poor
translation of the actual process.  Rather than clay, it was
substance, then breathed the breath of life into Adam.  The breath of
life being qualities of the Life Force which were part of the
creator, and this was in reference to the electromagnetic field of
the creator of Adam,--the Elohim, or alien that created Adam.

     This Awareness indicates that this was the process of breathing
life or the breath of life into the substance that became Adam.  It
was a similar process as the creation of replicas or duplicates,
though that took place approximately ten thousand years ago.

(READING CONTINUES):

     The final statement of the last question:  "The development of
biotechnologies will mean a revolutionary change in the life of every
human being now on earth.  The question is:  Will this be better
living through Bio-Tech?"

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that it will be a change.  Whether it
will be better or worse will always be questionable.  There will be
some benefits that come from this.  There will be detriments that
come from this.  There does not appear to be anything that can be
done to prevent this knowledge from being incorporated into the
Earth's consciousness; it has, in fact, been used by beings alien to
human consciousness for tens and hundreds of thousands of years,
indeed, millions of years, and it will continue to be used.  It is
just that humans are just realizing such strange and awesome
knowledge exists.  It will be equivalent to an individual, much like
that of the child, who suddenly discovers much to his dismay, that
sex brings forth children, for the adult to discover that genetic
engineering can create living beings, can alter living beings, can
create and alter new life forms, new types of beings.  This is
shocking to one who has never been exposed to such reality.

            ---------------------------------------------



        THE WEB OF CONSPIRACY:  (PART 5)...THE PHANTOM EMPIRE


(READING CONTINUES):

     "The Phantom Empire:  Above the Law.  The Dulce base is run by
a "Board."  The Chairman of the Board is John Herrington.  Jim Baker
(of Tenn.) is the CIA link to Dulce.  House Speaker Jim Wright, D-
Texas (the nation's third-highest office) is Treasurer at Dulce.

     There is currently a power struggle going on.  As Rep. William
Thomas, R-Calf., put it..."Part of Jim Wright's problem is, he fails
to understand what's equitable and fair.  It's the arrogance of
power."  Even among his fellow democrats, many find Wright to be
"uncomfortably aloof."  Wright's operating style leaves him
vulnerable.

     Most meetings of `The Dulce Board' are held in Denver and Taos,
N.M.  Former New Mexico Senator Harrison "Last man on the moon"
Schmitt, has full knowledge of Dulce.  He was one of 7 astronauts to
tour the base.

     In 1979, he held an "Animal Mutilation" conference in
Albuquerque, N.M.  This was used to locate researchers and determine
what they had learned about the links between the "Mute" operations
and the Alien/Government.

     Senator Brian (Nev.) knows about the `ULTRA' Secrets at
`Dreamland' and Dulce.  So do many others in the government.  This is
what the UFO researchers are up against, so be CAREFUL...they have
killed to keep this information secret.  You now know more than they
want you to know.

     They also have underwater bases off the coast of Florida and
Peru."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that all of the above is very poignant,
very accurate and very true.  This Awareness indicates that even the
repetition through this reading of such information does create some
danger for C.A.C. headquarters and the Interpreter.  This Awareness
indicates however, that it being just a kind of reflection of
material that is already available elsewhere, does tend to minimize
the danger, and the fact that the organization is small and the
publication limited to just a few hundred people, and the fact that
the information is available in other sources, and the sources are
being quoted, tends to minimize the danger.

     Also, the fact that there are now quite a large number of
entities, UFO researchers and entities who are openly disclosing such
information, has led to a kind of floodgate opening of such
information.  It makes it much less a danger.  Had this information
been given a year ago, it would have been extremely dangerous, and
those who risked their lives in releasing this information a year
ago, in some cases almost two years ago, were indeed very courageous
and should be held in high esteem as they could have become more of a
large number of victims of the cover-up.


     This Awareness indicates it does appear that part of the reason
this information can be released now, when it could not be released
even 18 months ago, is because there are conflicts even in the higher
ranks of government because some want the information hidden, while
others want it released to the public, knowing that the public must
be made aware of what is occurring if they are to be able to help in
the event of a clash between humans and aliens, and especially in
regard to the Draco/Reptilian invasion.

     This Awareness indicates that those who are collaborators and
have been collaborators and do not wish the information released,
generally are continuing the cover-up out of fear that the masses
would blame them and hold them responsible for all that is due to an
alien presence, and they fear that they could be seen as traitors.
This Awareness indicates that there was a time when these entities
realized that masses of human beings were being sacrificed to feed
the alien appetites, and that the aliens were not being straight-
forward in their dealings with humans.  These entities had a choice
of making a clean break with the aliens, or at least informing more
of the humans, or of continuing to collaborate and cover-up and make
excuses and assist the aliens.

     Of course, some entities cannot decide quickly, given certain
amount of time.  These entities have had sufficient time; that it
would appear proper that they now realize this information must be
released to the public.  It is appropriate that many within the
higher ranks have the courage and the ethics to allow this
information to be released as is being done, without destroying the
lives of those courageous researchers who are releasing information.
(This Awareness suggests that the reading continue).

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "One question:  House Speaker Jim Wright was drummed out of
office a few months back for alleged improprieties regarding outside
interests, and also for monies given to him by various corporations,
etc.  He has been replaced by Tom Foley, a Democrat from our own
Washington State, and I'd like to ask:  Did this information about
the Dulce complex and the alien information that Jim Wright had, was
this passed along to the new Speaker, Tom Foley?"

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this as being information that is
not appropriate through this channel to be released; that this would
be a violation of certain...This Awareness does not disclose any
information that is not already available elsewhere in regard to
individuals and their connections with these aliens, in terms of this
secret government.  This Awareness indicates that there will come a
time when more is disclosed; that this information could be damaging
to various entities in various ways.

QUESTIONER:  I understand.

(READING CONTINUES):

     "In the 1930's, `Division Five' of the FBI knew about the
`Aliens.'  A Fascist cabal, within this country, had John Kennedy
assassinated.  Look to the links, within the larger umbrella...the
`Web' of a fascist totalitarian secret police state...within the
Pentagon:  JCS; DIA; FBI; (Division Five); DISC/DIS and the CIA.
Note:  the Defense Investigative Service's insignia is a composite of
the sun's rays, a rose, and a dagger, symbolized "The Search for
Information, Trustworthiness and Danger."  Other links are Nazi
scientists (who had contact with the Aliens); the S.S.; Satanists;
Permindex; Exxon; the Mafia; NBC, etc.

     This links with caves used for `Initiation Rites' (all over the
world)...ancient vaults, retreats; Alien bases and Inner-Earth
civilizations."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this all as being correct
information; that this also relates to messages given in questions
asked yesterday in regard to the changes that are occurring
throughout the world, wherein this Awareness discussed certain
fascist energies that are in motion at this time.  This Awareness
indicates that this is a time in which alliances between some of the
fascist energies and some of the aliens has shifted; that it is not
simply a matter of humans versus aliens; there are some aliens who
want alliances with humans and some who don't, and these are also in
some instances seeking alliances with humans, aliens seeking
alliances with the fascist elements of humans; other aliens seeking
to align themselves with the more Communistic alliance, or that
which might be termed the Bolshevik groups.

     This Awareness indicates that the alliances being such that it
is a kind of struggle in which nothing absolutely clear has occurred,
but gradual shifting is making for a possibility that the alien
presence can be resolved to allow a human coexistence on this planet,
even in spite of the threat of the Draco Reptilians, and in spite of
the nature of the more hostile aliens on earth.  There is a ray of
hope for humans, even though there is a threat to humanity greater
than humanity would have imagined.

     The threat of nuclear war as that which conditioned humanity to
accept the potential for oblivion, but many humans would prefer
oblivion to enslavement by some of the beings whose attitudes and
natures see them as mere playthings or food or experimental guinea
pigs.  This Awareness indicates there is much that humans can learn
from this experience in regard to their own attitude toward animals,
guinea pigs, and their own forms of experiments.  This Awareness
indicates unfortunately, those who need to learn these lessons most
are not likely to have any reason to make such observations and
unfortunately too, there are many human cells and parts of
consciousness locked into those grotesque creations that are
presently entraped in a kind of hellish limbo and cannot get out,
because they have been genetically created as a `thing,' yet their
consciousness still remains that of humans.  Even if retarded or
demented in nature, they still have human consciousness, and these
entities continue to suffer.

     If entities think that this information is shocking and
disturbing to their peace of mind, stop for a moment and consider
what these beings who are the subject of experiments in the genetic
engineering levels such as Nightmare Hall, are going through.  This
Awareness suggests you should sing praises to the Divine Forces that
have protected you and your loved ones, if indeed you have been so
fortunate as to have lived a good life, and you should consider the
dangers facing younger generations who must grow up in a world so
totally different than the world you knew in your youth.

     This Awareness indicates that there is still, however, a ray of
hope for humanity, whereby great things can come about, wherein the
Greys have no sense of emotion, but do indeed desire such, and humans
can teach these entities in time through some of these genetic
mutations, especially their own hybrid offspring; it is possible that
race, which is close to a million years in age, can regain a sense of
compassion, a sense of emotion, can redevelop an astral, an emotional
body, and can perhaps even develop compassion and love, given
examples and given time to do so.

     This Awareness indicates that entities need to be most cautious
in the coming years, love your neighbors, your children, your family.
Cherish them carefully.  Watch them.  Do not neglect them.  Protect
them, and be cautious yourself.  Your chances are greater, much
greater, that you will live a normal healthy and long life than that
you would become a victim of alien technology.  That would be most
rare in terms of percentage.  (This Awareness suggests the reading
continue).

(READING CONTINUES):

   "Warning:  Fascism is `Corporatism'.  We have passed the point of
no return, in our interaction with the Alien Beings.  We are
guaranteed `a crisis' which will persist until the final Revelation
(or conflict).  The crisis is here, global and real.  We must
mitigate or transform the nature of the disasters to come...and come
they will.  Knowing is half the battle.  Read the book, The Cosmic
Conspiracy, by Stan Deyo."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that knowledge is power.  By knowing
what you know now from this information, you are much more powerful,
much more powerful than you were before being so informed.  This
Awareness indicates in reference to the Stan Deyo information; this
book is not available or is very difficult to find.  There is some
possibility of acquiring this book from certain sources.  If this
book becomes available, you should, at all costs or at any reasonable
cost, acquire the book and read it.


     It essentially speaks of the planned `rapture' in which there
will be the fake rapture, whereby there will be the appearance of an
event, a crisis that will lead humanity into the abyss of a global
crisis that could mean great difficulty for all.  There may even be
the appearance of the rise of an Antichrist, followed by an invasion
of spaceships, which would follow the BOOK OF REVELATION, wherein
entities would believe they were being rescued by high spiritual
beings, and in face, these could well be the humans using alien craft
and introducing alien technology as a One World Government is
established.

     This Awareness indicates that if these events were it take
place, prior to 1995, it is likely to be a fake event.  It is
possible that the Pleiadians could return by 1993.  The Pleiadians'
ships are different from the Greys and their appearance is different.
Their symbol is that of a serpent climbing a vine, or a serpent.  The
Reptilian symbol is that of a dragon.  The Grey's symbol also uses a
serpent, this being a cobra.

     This Awareness indicates that the Stan Deyo book has been
suppressed in this country.  There is some chance of getting copies
from Australia.  There are rare copies in the United States.  This
Awareness indicates that in regard to the corporations as being
fascist in nature; that this is in the affirmative.  This Awareness
suggests also that you will recall remarks by Dr. Beter that heads of
corporations were being replaced by synthetics or robotoids; in other
words, replicas of themselves.  This Awareness indicates that this as
having been part of the alien program in order to assure continued
use of such corporations.

     These entities being replaced are under control, or were under
control, of these technologies of the alien and of those who were
putting implants into their replicas to control the corporations,
according to their general plans.  This Awareness indicates there
does appear to have been considerable shift in the alliances since
that time, and as indicated, even the aliens may be changing
alliances, away from their previous Draco masters, in favor of
alliances with humans.  For this reason there is some degree of hope,
particularly if this shift continues.

     This Awareness indicates the Draco Reptilians do not really need
the earth.  They have more room than they need to grow and thrive.
They simply want the Earth as a kind of strategic point in their
battle to conquest the galaxy.  It is likened unto your army wanting
to take a hill, not because it needs more room, but because it wants
the hill to help it have better positioning for better conquest.
(This Awareness suggests the reading continue).

(READING CONTINUES):

     This is the final question in this particular reference.

     "Some forces, in the government, want the public to be aware of
what is happening.  Other forces (the collaborators) want to continue
making `what ever deals necessary' for an elite few to survive the
conflicts.  The future could bring a fascist `World Order' or a
transformation of human consciousness (Awareness).  The struggle is
NOW...your active assistance is needed.  Prepare!  We must preserve
humanity on Earth."

COSMIC AWARENESS:
                   What You Can Do About This Alien Situation

     This Awareness indicates that this is an excellent summary of
the situation.  There is the potential for a fascist domination by
both human and aliens.  There is also the potential for a major
awakening by the masses on this planet.  The preparation that is
needed has to do with filling oneself with knowledge of the
situation, and giving this knowledge to other.  This Awareness
indicates that as you can easily see, notifying the government or
other such authorities of this problem is like letting the fox know
that there's a fox in the henhouse.

     This Awareness indicates that the important thing is to notify
the masses, to notify other people.  Let them notify still more.  Let
them notify their preachers, their doctors, the workers on the
street, the people in the stores.  Let them notify people who are
interested, to notify people who make films, who write papers, who
spread news, who write articles for magazines, who speak publicly,
who have the ability to disseminate information, to people who have
access to a copier, to a printing press.

     Notify these people with sufficient amount of information that
they can be fully educated and knowledgeable so that they are not
spreading information that is half truth, half distorted, confused.
This Awareness indicates that this is how entities can prepare:  by
preparing each other, by preparing those who are willing to listen.
You do not have to force the information.  If entities are afraid to
hear it, if they have no curiosity, if they do not dare listen, do
not force it on them.

     This Awareness indicates that as time passes, and these things
become more in the news, as UFOs are talked about more, as the
advertisements begin to present more information on UFOs, as the
movies bring out more UFO stories, as these things begin to happen,
people will want to know more.  Have extra copies of your material
for them.  Purchase these books, tapes, study these things that have
been released wherein people are risking their lives to get this
information to you.  Study these things, have copies, purchase extra
copies.  The more you purchase, the more you are contributing to the
future of humanity.

     Give these copies, loan these copies, sell these copies;
whatever it takes to get the information out.  People need to know.
Many entities want to know.  Do not frighten entities who are already
helpless.  Do not give it to the old lady who is on her deathbed, or
who is afraid to open her drapes at night.  It would only frighten
her and harm her.  Give it to them in doses they can accept.

     If they cannot accept the full dose, give them something mild
until they ask for more.  This Awareness indicates it is possible
that humanity can survive.  The aliens presently on Earth have
greater technology than humans and yet they have this fear of humans
because of human emotion.  It is something they do not understand;
and remember to wrap yourself and your loved ones in White Light
frequently, especially so when you are out in isolated areas, or when
you are monitored and feel vibrations tapping into your
consciousness.

     This Awareness suggests any further questions may be asked at
this time or the Interpreter may be brought from trance.


             HOW UFO RESEARCHERS GATHER THEIR INFORMATION
                  (High Praise To Valdamar Valerian)

QUESTION:

     "We do have a few more questions while we're on this subject.
In the book, now out of print, called THE MATRIX, by Valdamar
Valerian, who's of the Nevada Aerial Research Group, there's a little
additional information I'd like to read, and ask if this information
on these entities is also valid."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness wishes to make a comment here, in regard to the
entity Valerian.  This Awareness indicates that many entities may
wonder:  How can a UFO researcher, having a group and putting out a
newsletter on UFOs, get so much information and have it accurate or
worthwhile?  Is it possible that they are simply making up
information to print?

     This Awareness indicates that in some cases, this is so.  There
are some who start out on a shoe string, read magazines and then put
out information.  There are many stories in some tabloids that are
simply fabricated, made up, but this Awareness indicates there is an
enormous amount of UFO information that has been double-checked in
different ways.  There are many entities in the field of UFO
technology, working within the government, working in areas or living
in areas near bases, or people who have some relationship with
similar entities, and who have some knowledge, many of these entities
having spent much of their lifetime studying UFOs or UFO technology
or working with government branches that were involved in such, and
as these entities reach a certain age or leave their occupation or
begin to feel a twinge of guilty conscience about what they perceive
as not being the highest and best for the American people, they begin
to desire to give this information, to get it out.

     These entities often write to groups like the Nevada Aerial
Research Group and the entity Valerian; and this entity, just by
being there, receives enormous amounts of information from people who
have something to tell, whose history and background was deeply
involved in this kind of cover-up, and these entities often
corroborate each other's testimony.  One can say something; five
years later, another report comes in that verifies something that
came in before, and these entities in corroborating each other, lend
credit, especially if these entities did not know each other or came
from different backgrounds and had no similar connection, and the
same is so for abductees; wherein the abductee from South America
experiences the same thing as an abductee from Europe or Asia or the
United States, a pattern begins to emerge and that pattern indicates
something real is happening all over the world.

     This Awareness indicates it is in this manner that information
is gathered that tends to indicate a strong validity, even though the
information may seem to be out of this world, and even alien to one's
intelligence.
     (This Awareness suggests the question continue).


        THE VARIOUS SPECIES OF ALIENS IN THE UNDERGROUND CITY


QUESTION RESUMES:

     "Yes.  This quoted from the book, THE MATRIX.
     "Grey Species 2--the Reticulans.  This species is the one most
     commonly thought of as being `Greys', and is the one popularized
     in recent books about the subject.  This species consists of
     beings that exists at 3rd, 4th, and 5th density levels.  Most of
     them exist at the 4th density level, which means that they are
     telepathic in nature.  Those existing at the 5th level have no
     physical bodies but must inhabit what they call "doll bodies,"
     or android bionic bodies.  Connection is sustained with these
     bodies through chakra points.

     Grey Species 2 is a species that functions in a mode that is
apparently military in nature, with a rigidly defined social
structure that holds science and conquering worlds to be the prime
mover.  What appear to be officers in this society have a diagonal
band running across their uniform.  Officers are often 5th density,
and sometimes retain what appears to be a toy doll that they exhibit
to others around them.  It is thought that this functions as a symbol
of authority among them.

     Grey Species 2 are about four feet high, have heads that are
large and black wrap-around eyes.  They also have devices that
magnify their mental fields in order to maintain control over humans
abducted.  They can withdraw information from the mental field of the
human and use that information to form the basis for mental
projections that influence the human to behave in certain ways.

     Some of these ways include disguising themselves as other humans
or other beings in order to gain control over the human being.
     Mentally, these species function in what might be termed a
"group mind."  They do not have individualized consciousness.  This
fact is an advantage to humans because the Greys cannot respond
adequately to a sudden shift in what they perceive to be happening.
They cannot take a "curve ball," either psychologically or otherwise.

     Grey Species 2 is a scientifically based society that functions
to study other lifeforms.  They have had a part to play in alteration
of human genetics over thousands of years.  They seek to cross-breed
with humans to create a mixture-race that will be better than
either."

     That was the end of that article.  Would Awareness comment as to
the validity of that information?

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this as generally correct: that
there are seven of the Reticuli species or types.  These may be
termed races or species; that species is perhaps a better term for
them.  There are also seven types of Reptilians of the Draco
civilization.  This Awareness indicates that it can become extremely
confusing to get into the many detailed levels of the species and
behaviors of such; that essentially, this information as correct;
that there are other details that can be added or clarified in the
information, but that it is not critical or truly essential to do so.
     This Awareness suggests that any further questions be asked or
the Interpreter by brought from trance.


     Ed's Note: For information on Valdamar Valerian and his
     Nevada Aerial Research Newsletter, please write:
     P.O. Box 81407, Las Vegas, Nevada 89180.

     This entity has put together a book in 1988, called "The
     Matrix:  Understanding Aspects of Covert Interaction
     With Alien Culture, Technology and Planetary Power
     Structures."  Several hundred copies were printed.  The
     book contained 361 pages of information, including
     maps and illustrations of alien bases, including their
     tunnel network.  Called by many UFO researchers,
     the most detailed information on aliens to date, "The
     Matrix" was also listed in William Cooper's material
     as reputable references.

     An interesting note, that backs up the information
     just given by Awareness, that bits and pieces of inform-
     ation comes in to this entity, and years later is verified
     by other information.  In the last chapter of the `Matrix,'
     Valerian included 14 pages of the UFO information
     released by C.A.C. in 1978 and early `79, which included
     information on aliens, deros, replicas etc.  In the preface
     to this information, Valerian stated the following:

     "COSMIC AWARENESS COMMUNICATIONS"---
     Generally seen as one of the most esoteric channeled
     sources, C.A.C. does present some interesting concepts.
     Some of the data does, in fact, match verified data that
     we have about the EBEs.  A sample of their newsletter
     follows..."

     The book, "The Matrix" sold for $60 and is out of
     print.  Hopefully, demand may force a reprinting and
     perhaps an updating of this informative book, which
     was published by:

     Arcturus Book Service,
     P.O. Box  831383
     Stone Mountain, Ga. 30083
     Phone: (404) 297-4624

     We heartily suggest that if you wish to research UFOs
     that you write Arcturus Book Service and request their
     latest catalog of used, hard-to-find books on this subject.
     New catalogs are updated monthly.  This editor has been
     able to locate quite a few books long out of print,
     which Awareness has recommended in the past-the
     works of John Keel, for instance.  Arcturus Book
     Service buys, and sells used books in the UFO and
     related fields.  Get on their mailing list without delay!
     (Avaton)


          COULD HEAT BE A POSSIBLE DETERRENT TO THE ALIENS?

QUESTION:

     I had a couple more.  In the Book, *THE ARMSTRONG REPORT:  THEY
NEED US, WE DON'T NEED THEM, by Virgil Armstrong, he suggests:  "We
know the greatest weakness of these aliens is their lack of
spirituality, but what about physical weakness?  Surprisingly, the
answer has to do with heat.  Apparently, they are extremely sensitive
to excessive heat and cannot safely sustain degrees beyond 80 to 85
degrees Fahrenheit.  Beyond this would be injurious or fatal.

     "Although I am a firm believer that we must deal with these ET's
primarily through spiritual means, possibly heat may serve as a
deterrent or restraint.  Something to ponder."

     Will Awareness comment on that theory?

     *The Armstrong Report:  "They Need Us,
     We Don't Need Them," by Virgil Armstrong,
     Entheos Publishing, P.O. Box 20174,
     Village of Oak Creek, Az 86341.  Price:
     $7.95 plus postage.  (Also available from
     C.A.C. although not listed in our Book
     Catalog sheet.


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this could be considered as a
beneficial weapon in terms of dealing with these entities at certain
times, or under certain conditions.  Unfortunately, for the entity's
argument, it does not appear to apply to all the aliens.  The
Reptilians, especially, do not appear to be disturbed by the elements
of heat.  This Awareness indicates it applies mostly to the Greys
from Orion, who tend to gravitate more toward the Northern climates.
It is partly for this reason that these entities prefer living under-
ground than above ground.  Also, they do not like the effect of the
sun's rays, even when the temperature of the atmosphere is cool, the
sun's rays tend to burn them, and this is not to their liking.  It
also is harmful to their eyes.

     This Awareness indicates this is fortunate for humans in that
these entities tend to leave the surface alone where humans live,
except at night, when it is cooler and when there is less light.

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "Those underground levels must be air-conditioned, are they not,
because one would think it would be pretty hot down there that far
into the earth."

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that this is in the affirmative; that
generally these are selected areas, staying away from the more hot
locations; these being in areas that tend to be cool, away from magma
and volcanic lava and such that exhibits heat.

     HOW MUCH KARMA EXISTS BETWEEN THE ALIENS AND THEIR VICTIMS?

QUESTION:

     "In this book I just quoted from, Virgil Armstrong has a theory
I'd like to ask about.  He writes:  "The theory expounds that those
who are being abducted and tampered with on the surface are in an
agreement with a covenant established in another life.  In short,
these unfortunate individuals are purposefully born and placed here
to serve as spare-parts and vehicles of purpose for the ET's in
question.  In other words they are to serve the sacrificial needs of
the dying and needy ET's so that their civilization can recoup and
endure.

    "If one accepts this, and I don't, then we would have to
presuppose that we are already heavily infiltrated with these
unfortunate individuals, who in truth would be aliens in human
bodies.


COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that there does appear to be a certain
type of karma that is carried over in a kind of vibration.  This
karma as not necessarily a negative karma, but related to a kind of
alliance; that it is a kind of pace that developed at some time in
the past.  This Awareness indicates that the energies on this are not
clear at this time; that the Interpreter as having been in trance for
too long to draw strong energy for this question; that one more
question may be asked.

(FOLLOW-UP QUESTION):

     "Well, this might be the same situation.  Along this same line,
I was wondering if the genetic experiments on that level described
earlier, those terrible experiments, if there's any possibility that
these creatures created were the genetic engineers in Atlantis
thousands of years ago that perpetrated similar atrocities?"

     What goes around comes around...

         WHY MOST PEOPLE ARE WILLING TO WORK WITH THE ALIENS

                (PAYING THE PIPER AFTER MAKING A PACT)

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates that in the forming of a pact wherein
one benefits at one time, there is the fee or cost, and there are
certain government people at this time who have formed pacts with
these entities who have not yet paid the fee.  This Awareness
indicates that there are also opportunities by some of these entities
to have a second chance to break that cycle of selling themselves to
these beings, and if they can break that cycle, there is that
possibility of escaping from the karma they would otherwise endure.

     This Awareness indicates that the entity who forms a pact at one
time in one life, and works for these entities, will return to work
for them again, and each time this occurs, the entity will have that
opportunity to break that alliance, and if the entity can break that
alliance, the enslavement is broken; but generally in the formation
of the alliance and the following opportunities of working with these
entities, there is a great temptation that is based on greed,
tempting the entities not to break the alliance.  They actually feel
an attraction, a drawing, a desire to work with, to work for these
aliens.  They tend to think of them as masters and want to give
themselves to their cause.

     This Awareness indicates that it is this cycle and this
attraction that needs to be broken in order for entities to be free.
This Awareness indicates that there will be further efforts by these
aliens to appeal to the greed of people, particularly involved in the
monetary situation, wherein entities will be given an opportunity to
accept a chip in their hand, an alien-sponsored chip in their hand or
wrist or forehead, whereby if such is accepted, they then belong to
the aliens.

     This Awareness indicates that those who at any time accept
aliens as masters will be used by these aliens.  That essentially is
the harvest, wherein they collect those who have sold themselves to
the aliens for some security, or monetary gain, or gain of power.  It
is a way of weeding out the entity who wants to follow the follower,
from the entity who is an individual who has personal integrity, is
integrated as an individual with their own Divine Center.

     This Awareness indicates that in centering yourself with your
own Divine Deity, the aliens can have no control, can have no hold on
you.  If you give yourself totally to the Highest and Best in the
sense of the absolute Divine, you are free of any domination by any
force outside, but if you lick the toes of the aliens, (both toes),
you are their servant until you break the cycle.

QUESTION:

     "Does Awareness have a closing message?"

COSMIC AWARENESS:

     This Awareness indicates there is much here for entities to
consider, to think about.  There is much here to give entities great
hope.  There is much here to give entities great concern.  There is
much here to give entities something to study, something to reflect
on, something to measure their values against, something to put their
life in perspective with.  There is much here to give to others, to
share with others, to share carefully discerningly with the right
people.

     This Awareness indicates that it is time for entities to do such
sharing.  It is valuable for entities to fully digest this
information, reread it approximately three times.  Share it.  Make
copies.  Give entities other sources, references for further
research, so that they do not think that you yourself are getting
your information from one source only.  Give them the opportunity to
research it for themselves.  Encourage them to do so.  Then you will
have someone to talk to about these things.

     This Awareness indicates that this is the beginning of the
awakening.  You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you
free.

     (This Awareness suggests the Interpreter be brought from
trance.)

     The Law of Gratitude is given.


               ----------------------------------------

BOOKS, UFO MAGAZINES, TAPE RECORDINGS FOR RESEARCH ON THE ALIEN
PRESENCE

     ED's Note:  For more information on UFOs and the Alien
Presence, please refer to the following issues of `Revelations
of Awareness:'

79-1 (The Gathering Storm); $4.00
79-18 (A Cosmic History of the Illuminati);
79-25 (The Web of Conspiracy:  The Secret of the UFOs):  $4.00

80-27 (Alien Invasion and Robotoids):

83-18 (Bigfoot and other weird items);
86-1 (Some Mysteries Explained)
86-14 (The Physics of Consciousness:  The Bermuda Triangle);
87-6 (A Peek at Life on Venus);
89-9 (UFO Invasion and Space `Monsters');
89-7 ("ET's Go Home!"):
89-1 (Some Possibilities in the Coming Months);

90-2 (The Web of Conspiracy, Part 5):  The William Cooper
     Papers:  The Alien Presence & the Secret Government
     Exposed:  $5.00

90-3 (Is There a NASA Cover-up?)
90-4 (The Alien Presence:  What was Missing from Dr. Beter's Info.);
90-5 (The Hidden Crisis:  The Quandary of the Secret Government):
90-6 (The Third Prophecy of Fatima:  The Alien Connection):
90-7 (The Drug Crisis:  Are we Being Set Up for an Alien Takeover?);
90-8 (The Crystal Pyramid.  Alien Walk-ins, Descriptions of Aliens
     etc.);
90-9 (The Web of Conspiracy, Part 6:  The Servants Awaiting
     Their Masters:  An Overview & Update on the Situation):
90-10 ("Nightmare Hall"); the Underground City at Dulce, N.M.
     (Special Report); $5.00

Note: Except where noted, all the above reprints are $3.00 each,
available from C.A.C.

               INTERESTING BOOKS AVAILABLE FROM C.A.C.
The Gulf Breeze Sightings, by Ed Walters.  $19.95 plus postage
An Alien Harvest, by Linda Moulton Howe, $45 plus $3 postage
BOOK LIST CONTINUED:

Communion:  A True Story of Alien Abductions, by Whitley Strieber.
$15 plus postage (Hardbound edition).

The Earth Chronicles, by Zecharia Sitchin:  Comprised of the
following four books:

The Twelfth Planet...$4.95
The Stairway to Heaven...$4.95
The Wars of Gods and Men...$4.95
The Lost Realms...$4.95

Order From:  COSMIC AWARENESS COMMUNICATIONS
             P.O. Box 115, Olympia, Washington 93507


                        FOR FURTHER RESEARCH:


UFO (Magazine)
California UFO
1800 S. Robertson Blvd., Box 355
Los Angeles, California 90035

Subscription:  $18 a year ($26 foreign)

The UFO Data Base:
1800 S. Robertson Blvd., P.O. Box 355
Los Angeles, Calif. 90035.  (With a computer and laser printer, you
can have the whole story.  Send $2.00 for catalog and info.)

UFOLOGY Information Network
P.O. Box 0123
Alamogordo, N.M 88311

Send SSAE for free info on their services. (Newsletters, computer
access).

Nevada Aerial Research Group Newsletter
P.O. Box 81407, Las Vegas, Nv. 89180
(Write for free info and prices)

Arcturus Book Service
P.O. Box 831383
Stone Mountain, Ga. 30083
(Write for free catalog of UFO books, etc.)



REVELATIONS OF AWARENESS is a cosmic newsletter, published for the
membership of Cosmic Awareness Communications, P.O. Box 115, Olympia,
Washington, 98507.


              --------------------------------------

-------- EOF ------------------------------------------------------------------
 