*****************************************************************************
** THIS FILE BROUGHT TO YOU BY *OPUS* FROM THE BOARD ROOM BBS xxx-xxx-xxxx **
*****************************************************************************

        *************************************************************
        *          An Introduction to The Klingon Language          *
        *                                                           *
        *                  Part 1: Introductions                    *
        *                                                           *
        *************************************************************


     This guide to the Klingon Language was compiled from two main sources:
'The Final Reflection', by John M. Ford, and 'The Klingon Dictionary', by
Marc Orkand. Both books are highly reccomended for further study, as well as
these additional sources: 'The Klingons' suppliment for 'Star Trek - The Role
Playing Game', first edition (co-conceived with John M. Ford); the section on
the Klingons in both 'The Making of Star Trek' by Stephen E. Whitfield and
some guy named Roddenberry, and 'The World of Star Trek', by David Gerrold;
'Pawns and Symbols', by Majliss Larson; and anything else I may have
forgotten. And regardless of what I have forgotten, this text series is
dedicated to all those listed above and mentioned elswhere (with the
exception of Vonda McIntyre, and if by some miracle this text should reach
her, I should hope that she knows that I am not alone is wishing that she
would quit redefining everything in 'Star Trek' to suit her personal desires
and simply write entertaining novels that are ACCURATE!!!) with the confines
of this series.

     Since this is meant only to be an introdution to the Klingon Language,
and not an official comprehensive text, two things need to be made clear
before continuing on to the subject matter. The first of which concerns the
source materials. As the 'Dictionary' was written by the same person who
designed both the Klingon and Vulcan languages for the 'Star Trek' films, Mr
Orkand's very excellent version of the Klingon vocabulary is considered by
Paramount Pictures as being the 'official recognized version' of the subject
in question. And due to its concise nature in detailing all of the proper
aspects of a language, is for almost all intents deserving of its status. It
really is a well done text dictionary for translating another language into
English, even if it is one that exists only in the hearts and minds of the
fans. Now, if only some other texts used for REAL languages were structured
like this....


     However, as with most things concerning 'Star Trek', the fans who
actually breathe the majority of life into this American institution have had
a bit of difference of opinion on some of Mr. Orkand's material. This
conflict stems from Orkand's apparant discrediting certain Klingon language
elements as those used in 'The Final Reflection', the most notable of these
being certain 'color- ful metaphors'that are vital to any language. The fans,
while accepting the 'Dictionary' well enough to prompt multiple print runs by
the publisher, still considered the phrases in 'Reflection' as having
jurisdiction based on the fact that 'they were there first.' Not to mention
the fact that despite the small number of words presented in 'Reflection' (as
compared with roughly 15 times as much in the 'Dictionary'), John Ford's
Klingon Language elements were still able to reveal a remarkable amount of
phonetic and grammatical structure. One reviewer for a fan magazine (which
has grown so dull over the years that it will not be named here...) even made
comparisons betwixt Ford's phrases and the Russian Language, which with all
of its cases, declensions and tenses is considered one of the more complexly
structured of all Terran languages.


     Still, only Orkand's version is 'officially' recognized by those who are
in publishing 'Star Trek' related material, and reportedly only the Orkand
material will 'sanctioned' for use in forthcoming 'Trek' novels and films. It
should be noted, however, that Orkand does mention in his preface that there
are several different Klingon dialects, and that the one used is dependent on
which racial or political faction is currently in power. Keeping this in
mind, it is now quite possible for both the Ford and Orkand versions to
co-exist in the 'Star Trek' universe. Adding further credability to this
notion is the fact that some of Orkand's terms have more than one Klingon
equivalent, a fact that the author also acknowledges, and states that the
differences may either be dialectically related, or may in fact refer to the
same item under different circumstances, uses, forms, or an unspecified
variant nature.


     Thus, taking all of Orkand's disclaimers into consideration, as well as
the preferences of the fans, this series of Introductions will take advantage
of both versions, as well as the other smattering of phrases and terms from
some of the other 'Trek' novels and movies, most notably, terms and phrases
from "Pawns and Symbols", by Majliss Larson, and whatever can be distilled
from the first 'Trek' movie, whose Klingon and Vulcan phrases were also
concieved by Mr. Orkand, but were not supported by the versions used in the
Third film. This, in fact, may be the true reason for admitting the existence
of several different dialects: a cover for discarding prior material. I
should also note that in her most recent novel "Battlestations!", Diane Carey
also makes mention of the differing Klingon sub-races, as well as Vonda
McIntyre in her rather...well, disputed novel "Enterprise: The First
Mission". The former manages to even use races mentioned in both the Ford and
Orkand materials, while the latter merely ignores them in favor of 'her'
rather convoluted views on how the Klingons should behave. Still, their
contributions and/or contradictions neede to be mentioned here, as they may
yet pop up in this Introduction...


     Finally, the second point that needs to be stressed is that the
materials presented here are, with the exception of my own personal
interpretations, the property of Paramount Pictures Inc, and any reproduction
of these materials for the intent of resale, is expressly prohibited,
forbidden, and punishable by law (or whatever its applicable equivalent
happens to be at the moment of the arrest...). This material can be
distributed as freeware only, and any use of for downloading on a 'pay board'
or similar computer communications system is bound by these restrictions and
their accompanying penalties. To put it in a nutshell, this stuff is the
property of Paramount where sales are concerned, but when it's given away,
it's considered part of our national heritage, and it's things like that that
not only make this country great, but kept 'Star Trek' alive during those
bleak years of the early 70's. Paramount has, for the most part, realized
this, so don't worry about having this stuff in your hot little hands.


     Besides, it's only here to make this BBS a bit more unique. Betcha won't
find this stuff on any CTSA boards, either; they have enough trouble speaking
English!!


                                         Omega Man/Khaless III

                                           -System Emperor

                                              The Klingon Empire! BBS

                                                 512-471-5850


         ************************************************************
         *         An Introduction to the Klingon Language          *
         *                                                          *
         *              Part 2: Another Introduction                *
         *                                                          *
         ************************************************************


     Klingonaase is the official language of the Klingon Empire, a language
that until recently was spoken by very few non-Klingons. A complex language
only due to lack of reference material, Klingonaase is a language that
requires a high fluency in order to avoid a dangerous (and possibly fatal)
slip of the tongue/vocal apparatii. This in fact was the case in several
instances over the years that the Federation and the Empire have known of one
another.


     Only through the help of Maltz tai-Destram, was the true depth of the
Klingon language made apparant. Riddled with many differing dialects,
Klingon- aase is far more complex than previously believed. However, this new
level of understanding is still far from complete, and has also taken a
serious setback. Regretfully, Maltz deemed it necessary to commit ritual
suicide before he could assist in further studies, and several inportant
areas were left incomplete. Thus, this series of text files is a bit lacking
in primarily three areas.


     First, of course, is scientific terminology. It is quite understandable
why Maltz was hesitant to talk about this, considering his training. Still,
another research group is in the process of collating knowledge from various
sources, including the recently declassified Vulcan 'Tharavul' files, and a
report on Klingon terms for the various sciences and their tools is currently
being prepared. It's release date is not yet knowm.


     Secondly, terms for native traditional tools, customs, flora, fauna, and
food are not covered outside of what is already known. Little is known about
the Klingon homeworld and its inner Imperial states, and this is especially
the case for the items mentione above. In the area of foods, the problem is
especially large, as there is a lack of resources as well as almost a total
lack of volunteers for any sort of study on Klingon eating habits.


     Thirdly, certain various sub-dialects are unrepresented here, as what
few words that are available have not been accurately translated, and no
correcting source is yet availiable. In reference to this last excluded
classification, it would be in order to list what races, sub-races, cultures
and political strata are covered in this text series. At the present time,
the following races are known to makeup the majority of races within the
Klingon Empire:



                     Klingon Mainline
                     Klingon / Human-stock Fusion
                     Klingon / Romulan-stock Fusion



     Of these three, there are numerous other minor sub-species. For a
further explanation of these races and their relationship to one another,
please refer to the text files concerning this matter, RACES.TXT. Still, a
short list of the major Social and Cultural groups within the Empire needs to
mentioned here in order to grasp the scope of what a total tranlational/
transliterational text would have to cover in order to be complete.


     The sociocultural division of the Klingon Empire are known to consist of
the following groups: Klinzhaii, or Klingonii, which is the parent race of
all the known races, and until recently held the majority of power within the
Empire. The captains Kor and Koloth are but two of the known represenatives
of this group, although the legendaty Thought Admiral Kethas and the previous
Emperor, Krenn, are perhaps the most documented examples; Rumaiym, a group
based on a religious belief in two deities, Durgath and Cymele. Recently the
Rumaiym has come into possession of the throne, though this may change in
light of the recent Genesis crisis. Captain Kang is but one of the known
examples of this group, as are his Uncle, the current Emperor, Maltz and his
crewmate, Torg; Wijngan, a smaller group that advocates the rapid
accelleration of all less developed races within the Empire (both
Klingon-stock and Non-Klingon races) to the a level slightly less developed
than the mainline of the Empire, and uniting the whole Empire on a holy war
against the Federation. Contrary to popular beliefs, this group does not
represent the general creedo of all Klingon races, as it would entail raising
even the servitor classes to a near-equal level as their masters. Krell, the
captain in charge of the Neural Technological Assistance Force, is one of the
few examples known, while Kang's wife, Mara, was allegied to this group until
well after her marrage.


   Standing in a peculiar position are the Kumburan, a small group consisting
of primarily one family line dedicated to the fine art of diplomacy in all
its aspects. They are presently at odds with the Rumaiym, but are
'tolerated' due to their talents, which have become more invaluable due to
the events in recent years. The most notable representative is the
Ambassador-Judiciator Kamarrag, who not only led the negotiation team at the
Organian Peace Conference, but recently was involved in the closing events of
the Genesis Crisis; and finally, the Daqualu, or 'The Remembered'. The name
is not used as a honor, but rather as an insult upon this group, which
consists of individuals, ship crews, and even whole name-lines that have
fallen into disgrace with whichever group is currently in power. They exist
only to survive until they can regain their former status by performing some
covert (read: suicidal) service for the Empire. The one major point of
interest about the Daqawlu is the fact that they will not backstab one
another to regain their status, as they have taken a sworn vow that even
those against them regard its trangression as treason against the Empire as
a whole. The most 'Remembered' of the Daqawlu is Kruge, the captain who
attempted to steal the Genesis Device, as was his consort, Valkris.


     There are also two major classifications that all Klingons are divided
into, regardless of race or creed: those who believe in the Komerex Zha, or
the 'Perpetual Game' of life, and those who do not. The belief that life is
naught but a game that is played to the end of one's existence is one that
has divided (albeit non-violently) the Empire into two roughly equal sides.
Those who do not believe in the game base their belief on the fact that a
game must have knowlegable rules of some form. Then again, it is also said
that to deny the existence of the game is itself a game strategy. Regardless,
the belief and non-belief in the Komerex Zha has a profound effect on Klingon
life in all of its myriad facets, much in the same way religion has on Terran
and Centaurian-based cultures.


     As expected, each of the individual Sociocultural groups possesses their
own dialect. This is where the major complications arise when trying to
understand and translate Klingonaase, for some of these dialects differ in
only a few words, mostly those referring to words classified in the second
and third classes of exclusion used by this text. In general, Technological
and Scientific terms tend to be the same regardless of dialect, with only
minor varyances for differing forms of possession and plurality. This is
primarily for the facilitation of spreading new technologies across language
barriers.


      One example of a word that has a different meaning in every known
dialect is the word for 'forehead', which can also mean 'horizon',
'hairpiece', 'green'. 'stagnant water', and 'heat'. The reasons for this kind
of difference are not yet fully understood, and may reflect words acqured
from alien languages with similar-sounding words of different meaning, such
as the case of the Russian word 'Slav', which means 'word' or 'people' in
Russian, while in German it stands for 'dumb' or 'lower'.


      Also as expected, each group prides itself on the diversity of their
languages, and knowledge of more than one's own dialect is always to one's
benefit. However, the past four Emperors have put into motion Imperial Edicts
that will eventually unify all of the major dialects into a common language
(similar to the experimental Esperanto composit language of Terra), and
though this has met some resistance, it has resulted in Clipped Klingonaase,
or what is more commonly known as Battle Language. As all military personell
are taught this from the begenning of their tours of duty, Battle Language
may indeed pave the way for such a unified language. Due to its importance,
it is covered later on in this text series.


      Before ending this introduction, some other facts need to be made about
the Klingons and their language. First, in lieu of a unified language for
other non-Klingons (read: the Federation) to refer to, most Klingons use
Standard Federation Galactic (a language much like 20-21st century English)
when ouside the confines of the Empire. Ergo, knowledge of Galactic is
usually limited to officers and higher-ranks, and any Klingon fluent in
Galactic has about as much leverage as one being fluent in two additional
dialects. With the number of Galactic training texts being made available to
the average Klingon increasing, the weight that such knowledge has on status
may eventually decrease over time. Still, it is a valuable tool for any
Klingon.


      Secondly, with only a few exceptions in the Klingonii/Klinzhaii form of
Klingonaase, the Klingon language is virtually devoid of any sort of ritual
greetings along the lines of 'hello, how are you?', 'good morning', etc. It
would appear that outside of military protocol, this sort of communication
has no place in Klingon society outside of the Klingonii/Klinzhaii group. As
a whole Klingons tend to get to the main points when speaking, saving any
sort of 'idle banter' for recreational periods. Even then, the greetings are
limited to a not-so-curt 'what do you want?' or 'What is your status?'. The
Klingonii/ Klinzhaii exception appears to have derived from interaction with
alien races where such communication phrases are essential to avoiding
conflict where it is actually unbeneficial to the nature of the situation,
despite the Klingon penchant for either starting or finishing such conflicts!


      Finally, it would also be in order to make note that the rest of this
text series will cover as much of the common elements of the various dialects
as possible. Where applicable, all known dialects will be represented,
although the majority of information currently deals with Rumaiym
Klingonaase. Still, the majority of this information is reflected in
Klingonii/ Klinzhaii dialect, as well as Wijngan and roughly half of what is
known of Kumburan. With this in mind, careful study should enable a
non-native speaker to communicate enough to get his point across without
finding his point supplanted by the point of a Klingon Blood Sword!



         ************************************************************
         *          An Introduction to the Klingon Language         *
         *                                                          *
         *               Part 3: The Klingon Alphabet,              *
         *                       and Pronounciation                 *
         *                       Varyances with Dialects            *
         *                                                          *
         ************************************************************


     The Klingons, regardless of race or culture, all use a form of writing
called pIqaD (pronouced PEE-kaD, with stress on both the pI and the D). As
this is only rudimentarily understood, with the aid of the late Maltz, a
transliterated form of the pIqaD system was concieved in order to facilitate
translation/ transliteration of the various forms of Klingonaase.
Accompanying this transliterated form is a phonetic guide that will enable
anyone who can speak in standard Galactic or English to approximate the
proper sounds of the Klingon language. With a little practice there should be
a minimum of difficulty in forming words and phrases that are at least
relatively intelligeable by most Klingons. There will be a problem with
having a 'Federation' accent, but even the most experienced non-native
Klingonaase speakers manage to retain some sort of an accent regardless of
the amount of training and use they recieve.


     The transliterated form of pIqaD is arranged as follows:



          a,b,ch,D,e,gh,H,I,j,l,m,n,ng,o,p,q,Q,r,S,t,tlh,u,v,w,y,'



     Note that ch,gh,ng and tlh are considered separate letters, so the
     syllable 'no' would proceed the syllable 'nga' in a Klingon listing.



     The following is the phonetic guide for the pIqad above:


                            VOWELS

     a - as in psalm or awful, but never as in crabapple.

     e - as in sensor or jenny

     I - as in misfit or idiom. It can be as in zucchini, but this appears to
         be limited to plurality in Klingonii/Klinhaii dialect as far as wide
         useage goes. For the most part, though, only rarely.

     o - as in mosaic or modem

     u - as in prune or june or gnu, but never as in but or cute



     Note here that when a vowel is followed by  w  or  y, the combination of
     sound may not represent the same sound as in the Galactic/English
     spelling

             pIqaD        sounds like          as in English

             aw               ow                  cow

             ay                y                  cry

             ey               ay                  pay

             Iy               ey                  key

             oy               oy                  toy




                           *** CONSONANTS ***


     b - as in bronchitis or gazebo. Some Klingons, primarily the Wijngan,
         tend to pronounce this sound as if it were  m  and  b  articulated
         almost simultaneously. This sound variant can be approximated my by
         saying imbalance without the initial i sound. Some Daqawlu speakers
         tend to interpose the  m  and the  b  sounds.

    ch - as in chew or artichoke or cheese.

     D - this sound is close to the  d  in android, but is not quite the
         same, as in English  d  is made by touching the tip of the tongue to
         that part of the roof of the mouth just above the teeth. Klingon  D
         can be approximated by placing the tongue slightly higher above the
         teeth than in English  d . In Wijngan dialect, this is also
         pronounced more like it was  nd, as in hand, while many Kumburan
         speakers actually drop the  d  to a silent letter and just use the
         n, as in can.

    gh - this is not like anything in Galactic/English. It can be produced by
         putting the tongue in the same position it would be to say  g  in
         the word gobble, but relaxing the tongue somewhat and humming. It is
         the same as Klingon H (see below), but with the vocal chords
         vibrating at the same time.

     H - This is also not like anything in Galactic/English. It is best
         approx- imated by the  ch  sound in Bach. It is produced in the same
         way as in Klingon  gh, but with a strong articulated rasp, and the
         vocal chords do not vibrate. In Kumburan and Daqawlu dialects, the
         rasp is a bit less stressed, more like the  j  in Tijuana.

     j - as in Junk, but never as French jour, regardless of dialect.

     l - as in lunge or alchemy

     m - as in mud or pneumatic. Daqawlu speakers who transpose the  m  and
         b sounds must learn to memorize the correct spellings without the
         aid of phonetic interpretation.

     n - as in nectar or sunspot. Kumburan speakers who pronounce Klingon D
         as n  have shown that they can indeed tell the difference between
         the two sounds when articuated by another Kumburan speaker. Even a
         D  that sounds like  n  in pronounced with the tongue in the Klingon
         D position and not the English d position. Klingon n is produced
         with the tongue in the same position as Galactic/English d.

    ng - as in furlong, never as in engulf. The  g  is never pronounced as a
         separate sound, and although it never occurs at the start of English
         words, it does so for many words in Klingonaase. It can be best
         spoken by saying the words 'dang it!', but without the 'da'.

     p - as in parallax, and always with a strong puff or pop. This normally
         discharges saliva, which is something Klingonaase speakers never
         worry about, especially Daqawlu speakers.

     q - this is similar to the  k  in kumquat, but not quite. Klingon q is
         pronounced by touching the tongue to the roof of the mouth much
         farther back than it does in  gh  or  H. In fact, it almost sounds
         like the speaker is choking (much like certain attempts of
         non-speakers in the use of French). This sound is also accompanied
         by a puff of air. It is never pronounced  kw, as in quagmire.

     Q - This is a rather overdone Klingon q. It is identical to Klingon q,
         but is very gutteral and raspy, and strongly articulated, somewhat
         like a blend of Klingon q and H. Klingonii/Klinzhaii speakers tend
         to further stress this by pronouncing it as if it had a glottal stop
         between the Q and the next syllable, tho this is mostly confined to
         certain more 'colorful' metaphors.

     r - similar to the  r  in Spanish, but only lightly trilled.

     S - this sound is halfway between  s  and  sh, as in syringe and
         shuttle, and is made with the tip of the tongue reaching toward that
         part of the roof of the mouth which it touches in Klingon D.

     t - as in tarpaulin or critique. It differs from Klingon D it two ways:
         (1) like p, it is accompanied by a puff of air, and (2), the tongue
         touches a position on the roof of the mouth farther foreward than
         that for D.

   tlh - this sound does not occur in English, byt is very much like the
         sound tle in kettle, if properly pronounced. To produce this sound,
         this tip of the tongue touches the same part of the roof of the
         mouth it touches for  t, the sides of the tongue are lowered away
         from the sides of the upper teeth, and air is forced between sides
         of tongue and teeth.

     v - as in vulgar or demonstrative.

     w - as in worry or cow. In Daqawlu and Wijngan dialects, this is often
         overstressed, more like English 'hw' or 'huw'. This occasionally
         will happen in the other known dialects, but it usually limited to
         stresses of deliberate intent, especially in Kumburan.

     ' - this indicates a sound that is frequently uttered, but not written
         in English. It is a glottal stop, that slight catch in the throat
         between the two syllables of English 'uh-oh' or 'uh-huh'. When
         Klingon ' comes at the end of a word, the vowel preceeding the ' is
         often repeated in a soft whisper, as if a weak echo. When ' follows
         y  or  w at the end of a word, there is often a whispered, echoed  u
         or I, respectively. Occasionally, the echo is quite audible, with a
         gutteral soung like gh  preceeding the echoed vowel. This commonly
         occurs in Kumburan, but in other dialects this extra-heavy echo is
         heard most often when the speaker is extremely angry or excited.



                               *** STRESS ***



         Each word in Klingonaase of more than one syllable normally contains
one stressed (or accented) syllable. The stressed syllable is pronounced at a
slightly higher pitch and with a little more force than the nonstressed
one(s).

         In a verb, the stressed syllable is usually the verb itself, as
opposed to any prefix or suffix. However, if a suffix ending with  ' is
separated from the verb by at least one other suffix, both the verb and the
suffix ending in  ' are stressed. Suffixes indicating negation or emphasis
are frequently stressed, as is the interogative suffix.

         In a noun, the stressed syllable is usually the syllable right
before the first noun suffix. If, however, a syllable ending in  ' is
present, it is usually stressed instead. If there are two syllables in a row
that end with a ' , then both are equally stressed.

         Finally, it should be noted that there are some words which seem to
have variable stress patterns, with the stress sometimes switching from one
syllable to another. This has even been recorded as happening when a word is
spoken twice in the same sentence. This phenomenon is not yet understood, but
if accepted rules are followed, stress will wind up on accepted syllables.

         In this text series, the system used to transliterate Klingonaase
does not indicate stress. The sole exception to this is the phrase text file
at the end of this series.


         ************************************************************
         *          An Introduction to the Klingon Language         *
         *                                                          *
         *                Part 4: Nouns and Suffixes                *
         *                                                          *
         *                                                          *
         ************************************************************



     This text file deals with Klingon nouns and their use. Before
continuing, it should be noted that a complete description of Klingon grammar
is virtually impossible due to both its complex nature and lack of
resources. However, this guide should cover enough areas for the student of
Klingonaase to be able to understand what a Klingon is saying, and be able to
communicate back, albeit in a brutish, yet intelligible manner. Most
Klingons, however, will notice know the difference, unless some breach of
conduct is in addition.

     Essentially, there are three basic parts of Klingon grammar that will be
discussed here: Nouns, Verbs, and Everything Else...


                                    NOUNS

     There are various types of nouns in Klingonaase. Simple nouns, Complex
nouns, and Compound nouns. Simple nouns are nouns made up of one-syllable
words, such as DoS (target). Complex nouns are are formed from two, sometimes
three syllables that separately have no meaning, or their separate meanings
have no relationships to the complex noun. For example, lurDech (tradition)
can be broken into lur (pupil of eye) and Dech (surround), but the
definitions are not the same when the word is combined. Again, the
differences may indeed be attributed to dialectic accommodation to alien
words and phrases, but without further research materials this can only be
speculation at this time.

     The third type of noun, the Compound noun, consists of two, three, and
even four nouns in a row, yet grammatically combined together into 'one'
word. An English example of course is earthworm, while in Klingonaase one
such example is jolpa' (transporter room), which is formed from jol
(transport beam) and pa' (room).

     Another form of Complex noun consists of a noun followed by a verb whose
meaning is 'one who does' or 'thing that does'. This is roughly similar to
the Galactic/English suffix '-er', as in 'builder'. In Klingonaase, the
suffix is -wI'. An example of this is baHwI' (gunner), which is formed from
baH (fire <a torpedo>) and -wI' (one who does). Ergo, baHwI' is literally
'one who fires <a torpedo>.' Similarly, So'wI' (cloaking device) comes from
So' (cloak) and -wI' (that which does), and is literally 'thing which
cloaks'. Complex -wI nouns area also formed from verbs by adding the -wI
suffix, as in the Rumaiym word toy'wI' (servant), which is derived from toy'
(to serve) and -wI'. -wI' nouns can also be used with another noun to form a
new Compound noun. For example, the Klingonaase word tIjwI'ghom (boarding
party) comes from tIjwI' (boarder - tIj <to board> + -wI' <one who does>) and
ghom (group).



                                   SUFFIXES


     All nouns, wheter Simple, Compound or Complex, may be followed by one or
more suffixes. If there are two or more suffixes, they must occur in a
specific order. Suffixes may be calssified on the basis of their relative
order after the noun. There are five classes of suffixes, and for ease of
demonstration they will be referred to as Suffixes 1-5. They take on the
following form of order when used with a noun:


                                NOUN-1-2-3-4-5


     In each case where a noun is followed by more that one suffix, each of
the suffixes must follow the noun in the same order as their class. That is,
a moun followed by a class 2, 3 and 5 suffix would have those suffixes
arranged in that order. In the case of a noun with only one suffix, class
order has, of course, no effect.

     Of each of the five suffix types, there are at least two suffixes. No
two suffixes from the same type class may be used at the same time within the
same noun. Which is to say that a noun cannot be followed by two, three or
four class 3 suffixes.

     The members of each suffix class are as follows:



                 *** Type 1 - Augmentative/Diminutive   ***


     -'a'          augmentative. This suffix indicates that what the noun
                   refers to is bigger, more important, or more powerful than
                   it would be without the suffix

                   ex:   Sus (wind/breeze)  -->   Sus'a' (strong wind)

                         Qagh (mistake)     -->   Qagh'a' (major blunder!)

                         woQ (power)        -->   woQ'a' (ultimate power)


     -Hom          diminutive. This is the opposite of the diminutive suffix.
                   it indicates that what the noun refers to is smaller, less
                   important, or less powerful than it would be without the
                   suffix.

                   ex:   SuS (wind/breeze)  -->    SuSHom (wisp of air)

                         roj (peace)        -->    rojHom (short truce)



                     ***   Type 2 - Number   ***


     -pu'          This is a plural suffix for beings capable of using
                   language or possessing intelligence. It is not used for
                   lower forms of life, or any non-living item.

                   ex:   yaS (officer)      -->    yaSpu' (officers)


     -Du'          This is plural for body parts of any living being
                   regardless of the height of development. In Klingonii/
                   Klinzhaii dialect this can refer to small devices, as well
                   as the ambulatory parts of manufacturing machines,
                   androids and robotic units.

                   ex:   tlhon (nostril)    -->    tlhonDu' (nostrils)


     -mey          This is a general usage plural suffix. This can be used on
                   any noun except those referring to body parts.

                   ex:   yuQ (planet)       -->    yuQmey (planets)


                   It also should be noted that this rule is violated quite
                   frequently in Klingon prose in such words like tlhonmey
                   (nostrils scattered all over the place!). Still, the
                   useage of such suffixes outside of normal rules is not
                   completely understood, and it is strongly urged that all
                   students of Klingonaase stick to the rules until further
                   understandings are made availiable.


     Suffixes are not the only way that nouns are made plural. In
Klingonaase, a noun without a suffix can be made plural by the use of a
pronoun, whether a verb prefix (see PART 5: VERBS) or a full word (see PART
6: OTHER WORDS). Since the use of pronouns can become confusing, as certain
pronouns have two or more possible meanings. Luckily, it is never incorrect
to add a plural suffix to a noun referring to more than one entity, so long
as the pronoun involved, as well as the object in question, are also plural.

     Finally, there are certain nouns that are already plural in nature, and
therefore never require a suffix. Their singular counterparts are distinct
from the plurals as well:


                   SINGULAR                   PLURAL

                   DoS (target)               ray' (targets)
                   peng (torpedo)             cha (torpedoes)
                   vIj (thruster)             chuyDaH (thrusters)


     Inherently plural nouns are treated grammatically as singular nouns in
that singular pronouns are used to refer to them.



                        *** TYPE 3 - QUALIFICATION ***


     Suffixes of this type indicate the speaker's attitude toward the noun,
or or how sure the speaker is that the noun is being used properly.


     -qoq          so-called. This suffix indicates that the noun is being
                   used in a false or ironic fashion.


     -Hey          apparant. This suffix indicates that the user is pretty
                   sure the object referred to by the noun is accurately
                   described by the noun, but has some doubts.


     -na'          definite. This is the counterpart of -Hey. It indicates
                   that there is no doubt in the speaker's mind as to the
                   accuracy of his/her choice of words.


                  *** TYPE 4 - POSSESSION/SPECIFICATION ***


     Type 4 is the largest class of noun suffixes. It contains all of the
known possessive suffixes, as well as suffixes which can be translated to
Galactic/English as this and that.


          -wIj --> my     -lIj --> your     -Daj --> his, her, its

          -maj --> our    -raj --> your (plural)    -chaj --> their


     When a noun being possessed refers to a being capabl of using language,
a special set of suffixes is used for first and second-person possessors:


    -wI' --> my    -lI' --> your    -ma' --> our    -ra' --> your (plural)

     Although gramatically correct, these possessors should never be used in
reference towards another being capable of speech outside of one's younger
offspring or one's servitors. Students of Klingonaase should bear this in
mind, as claiming a personal possession of a superior is considered a strong
insult!


     There are two suffixes that indicate how close to the speaker the object
in question is:

                   -vam --> this     -vetlh --> that

     When used with plural nouns, these suffixes possess the following
meanings:

                   -vam --> these    -vetlh --> those

     It should be noted that there are no Klingonaase equivalents to English
'a', 'and', or 'the'. When translating into Galactic/English, the student of
the Klingon Language should use the context of what is being said to
determine when to use these excluded articles.


                      *** TYPE 5 - SYNTACTIC MARKERS ***


     These suffixes indicate something about the function of the noun in the
sentence. Subjects and Objects of sentences in Klingonaase are indicated by
word order in most cases. While most syntactical markers are represeted by
whole words, the exceptions are covered by adding prepositions to the nouns
in in question. Such prepositions take the form of the following suffixes:


     -Daq          locative. This suffix indicates that something is
                   happening or will happen, or has happened in the vicinity
                   of the noun to which it is attatched. It is normally
                   translated as 'to', 'on', 'in', or 'at'.


      -vo          this is translated as 'from'. Similar to -Daq, but is used
                   only to when the action is in a direction away from the
                   noun suffixed with -vo.


      -mo          blame, cause of. This is translated as 'due to' or
                   'because of'. It's used to denote which noun is the cause
                   of a particular action.


     -vaD          for, intended for. This suffix indicates that the
                   attatched noun is in some way the target or beneficiary of
                   either the action or the person or thing for whom or for
                   which the activity occurs.


     -'e'          topic. This suffix emphasizes that the noun to which it is
                   attatched is the topic of the sentence. This is similar to
                   overstressing the noun in an English sentence in order to
                   emphasize its importance.



     These suffixes also are used in noun-noun constructions, which produce
even more complex noun structures. Simply put, when a noun part begins a
sentence, the suffix order continues for the suffixes attatched to that noun
part, then when the next noun part is placed in sequence, the suffix order is
restarted.


             ex: jaghpu' yuQmeyDaq (at/to the enemies' planets)


                      jagh  -->       noun      --> enemy
                      -pu'  -->  C2 suffix      --) plural
                      yuQ   -->       noun      --> planet
                      -mey  -->  C2 suffix      --> plural
                      -Daq  -->  C5 suffix      --> locative


     Finally, Prepositional phrases are rendered in Klingonaase by the
noun-noun construction. Concepts like 'above' and 'below' are actually nouns,
best translated as 'area above' or 'area below', respectively. In such cases,
the locative suffix occurs after the second noun in the pair.


         ************************************************************
         *          An Introduction to the Klingon Language         *
         *                                                          *
         *                     Part 5: Verbs                        *
         *                                                          *
         ************************************************************


     Klingon verbs are mostly one-syllable words which may be accompanied by
several affixes. As with Klingon nouns, Klingonaase verbs may take suffixes
falling into a number of types based on their relative positions following
the verb. Of these suffixes, there are nine types. Unlike Klingon nouns,
Klingonaase verbs may also take on a prefix. Thus, if verb suffix classes are
denoted by numbers in the same fashion as for nouns, the structure of a
Klingon verb is as follows:


                        PREFIX-VERB-1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9


     Each Klingon verb begins with a single prefix that indicates who or what
is performing the action described by the verb, and, when applicable, who or
what is the recipient of that action. In other words, prefixes for verbs in
Klingonaase can indicate both the subject and object of the sentence. The
basic set of prefixes can be presented in a chart, as in the one below:



                             VERB PREFIXES


 OBJECT -->    .  None .  me   .  you  .  him/ .   us  .    you  .  them   .
               .       .       .       .  her/ .       . (plural).         .
               .       .       .       .   it/ .       .         .         .
 SUBJECT  \/   .       .       .       .       .       .         .         .
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           I   .  jI-  .  __   .  qa-  .  vI-  .  __   .   Sa-   .   vI-   .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
         you   .  bI-  .  cho- .  __   .  Da-  .  ju-  .   __    .   Da-   .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   he/she/it   .  (0)  .  mu-  .  Du-  .  (0)  .  nu-  .   lI-   .   (0)   .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
          we   .  ma-  .  __   .  pI-  .  wI-  .  __   .   re-   .   DI-   .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
you (plural)   .  Su-  .  tu-  .  __   .  bo-  . che-  .   __    .   bo-   .
               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
        them   .  (0)  .  mu-  .  nI-  .  lu-  .  nu-  .   lI-   .   (0)   .
____________________________________________________________________________



     Please note that in order to simplify such a complex chart, some
prefixes are repeated for clarity, and both the object and subject are
combined into a single prefix. The (0) in the chart refers to the fact that
these particular subject-object combinations are indicated by the absence of
a prefix before the verb. In the case of the '__', this indicates that these
particular combinations cannot be expressed with the Klingonaase verp prefix
system, and must therefore be managed with pronouns (See PART 6: OTHER WORDS)
and/or with verb suffixes.


     Before discussing these verb suffixes, it would be in order to
demonstrate how these prefixes are utilzed. The first collumn is used when
there is/are no object(s), meaning the verb is reflexive. In short, the verb
refers to the doer alone.

                       ex:   Qong (to sleep)
                            -----------------
              jIQong (I sleep)      |      maQong (we sleep)
                                    |
              bIQong (you sleep)    |      SuQong (you <plural> sleep)
                                    |
                Qong (he/she/       |      Qong (they sleep)
                      it sleeps)    |

     The remaining prefix forms refer to the subject and object as two
totally different entities.


                           ex: legh (to see)
                               ----------------
          qalegh  (I see you)         |     cholegh (You see me)
                                      |
          vIlegh  (I see him/her      |      mulegh (he/she/it sees me,
                         it/them)     |              they see me)
                                      |
          Salegh  (I see you <pl>)    |      tulegh (You <pl> see me)
                                      |
          Dalegh  (You see him/her    |      Dulegh (he/she/it sees you)
                           it/them)   |
                                      |      pIlegh (we see you)
          julegh  (You see us)        |
                                      |      lulegh (they see him/her/it)
            legh  (he/she/it sees     |
                   him/her/it/them,   |
                   they see them)     |



     There is one final set of verb prefixes in Klingonaase, ones used for
imperatives. That is, verbs used in giving commands. Such commands can only
be given to 'you' or 'you (plural)'. As will become apparant, not all verbs
will become gramatically correct when translated from Klingonaase, but are
correct in usage. Note that in one exception, the identical prefix is used
regardless of whether the command is given to one or more than one person.
The sole exception refers to situations where a command is given to several
people, but there is no object in question.


          Object -->   .  none .  me  .  him/her/it  .  us  .  them  .
          ............................................................
          you          .  yI-  .  HI- .      yI-     . gho- .   tl-  .
                       .       .      .              .      .        .
          you (plural) .  pe-  .  HI- .      yI-     . gho- .   tl-  .
          ............................................................


     In translation, it should be remembered that these verbs involve a
direct command and require an exclamation mark in the translated sentence.


                              ex: qIp (to hit)
                                ------------
                                     |
                  yIqIp (Hit!)       |     ghoqIp (Hit us!)
                                     |
                  peqIp (Hit! <pl>)  |      tIqIp (Hit them!)
                                     |
                  HIqIp (hit me!)    |      yIqIp (Hit him/her/it!)




                                VERB SUFFIXES

     As mentioned before, there are nine types of verb suffixes. The rules of
order for Klingon verbs are the same as for nouns, with one exception: so
far, there are no recorded instances of compound verb structures such as the
noun-noun configurations. Although this is theoretically possible (and is, in
fact, done in certain Tellarite dialects), it does not yet appear to happen
in the verb structures of Klingonaase. Therefore, one verb per verb
structure.


                       TYPE 1: ONESELF / ONE ANOTHER


         -'egh        Oneself. This suffix is used to indicate that the
                      action described by the verb affects the performer of
                      the action, the subject. It is translated into
                      Galactic/English as 'self'. When this suffix is used,
                      the prefix set used to indicate 'no object' must also
                      be used.


                      ex:  jIqIp'egh (I hit myself)

                           bIqIp'egh (you hit yourself)

                           qIp'egh (he/she hits him/herself)


                      It is also possible to use this suffix with imperative
                      verbs. The 'no object' prefixes must also be used.


                      ex:  yIja''egh  (tell yourself!)
                           (ja'<to tell>)

                           peja''egh  (tell yourselves!)



         -chug        one another. This suffix is used only with plural
                      subjects. It is best translated as 'each other' or 'one
                      another'. The prefix set indicating 'no object' is also
                      used when this suffix is used.


                      ex:  maqIpchug (we hit each other)

                           SuqIpchug (you <pl> hit each other)

                           qIpchug (they hit each other)

                           peqIpchug (hit each other!)




                      TYPE 2: VOLITION / PREDESPOSITION


     Suffixes of this type express how much choice the subject has about the
action described, or how predisposed the subject is toward doing it.



          -nIS        need.

                      ex:  vIleghnIS (I need to see him/her)

                           bISopnIS (You need to eat)
                           (Sop <to eat>)


         -qang        willing.

                      ex:  Heghqang  (He/She is willing to die)
                           (Hegh <to die>)

                           qaja'qang  (I am willing to tell you)
                           (ja' <to tell>)


          -rup        ready, prepared (referred to beings)

                      ex:  Heghrup (He/She is ready to die)
                           (Hegh <to die>)

                           qaleghrup (I am ready to see you)
                           (legh <to see>)


          -beH        ready, set up (referred to devices)

                      ex:  pojbeH (<the defice> is ready to analyze it)

                           labbeH (<the device> is ready to transmit data)
                           (lab <transmit data>)


          -vIp        afraid

                      ex:  choHoHvIp (you are afraid to kill me)
                           (HoH <to kill>)

                           nuqIpvIp (they are afraid to hit us)
                           (qIp <to hit>)

                      NOTE: although this suffix is gramatically correct when
                            used with a prefix meaning 'I' or 'we', it is
                            considered culturally taboo, and is therefor
                            rarely used, except in prose or in insult.



                             TYPE 3: CHANGE


     Suffixes of this type indicate that the action described by the verb
involves a change of some kind of state of affairs that existed before the
action occured.


         -choH        change in state, change in direction

                      ex:  maDo'choH (we are becoming lucky;
                                      we are undergoing a turn in luck)
                           (Do' <to be lucky>)

                           ghoSchoH (he/she is begenning to go <somewhere>)
                           (ghoS <to go>)

                           NOTE: The second example implies that he/she was
                                 going either nowhere, or somewhere else just
                                 before the phrase was uttered. Note that the
                                 translation of this suffix can also be said
                                 as 'become' or 'begin to'


          -qa'        resume. Using this suffix implies that an action had
                      been taking place, then stopped, and has begun again.

                      ex:  vInejqa'  (I am resuming the search;
                                     I am searching for him/her again)
                                     (nej <to search>)



                                TYPE 4: CAUSE


          -moH        cause. Adding this suffix to a verb indicates that the
                      subject is causing a change of condition, or causing a
                      new condition to come in existence.

                      ex: vIHoHmoH (I am killing him/her/it)
                          (HoH <to kill>)

                          HIQoymoH (let me hear <something>)
                          (Qoy <to hear>)

                          NOTE: In this last sentence, the more literal
                                translation is 'cause me to hear
                                <something>'. Also, this sentence is not a
                                request, but more a command!



                     TYPE 5: INDEFINITE SUBJECT / ABILITY


     These next two suffixes have very little to do with each other except
for being classified as Type 5. As a result, no verb occurs with both of
these uffixes at the same time.


          -lu'        indefinite subject. This suffix is to indicate that the
                      subject is unknown, indefinite, and/or generalized.
                      Also, pronominal prefixes are used in a different way.
                      Those used to denote 1st, 2nd or 3rd person subjects
                      instead refer to the respective objects. Ergo, any verb
                      with -lu' means 'something/someone does something to
                      me/him/her/it /them', as opposed to I/you/he/she
                      /it/they do something to someone/something.

                      ex:  Daqawlu' (someone/something remembers you)
                           (qaw <to remember>)


          -laH        Can, able

                      ex:  jIQonglaH (I can sleep)
                           (Qong <to sleep>)

                           choleghlaH (you can see me)
                           (legh <to see>)



                            TYPE 6: QUALIFICATION


     This type of suffix is similar to the Class 3 noun suffixes, in that
they show how sure the speaker is about what is being said. It expresses the
degree of certainty, or uncertainty if applicable. It can be translated into
Galactic/English as 'I think' or 'I suspect', especially in the case of the
third suffix below:


         -chu'        clearly, perfectly

                      ex:  jIyajchu' (I understand clearly/perfectly)
                           (yaj <to understand>)


          -bej        certainly, undoubtedly

                      ex: chImbej (it is undoubtedly empty)
                          (chIm <be empty>)


         -law'        seemingly, apparantly

                      ex: nuSeHlaw' (he/she seems to be controlling us)
                          (SeH <to control>)




                                TYPE 7: ASPECT


     It is here that one of the more important points about Klingonaase
arises. The language does not express past, present or future tenses. Such
ideas must be expressed through context or other words in the sentence, as in
wa'leS (tomorrow). Klingonaase does, however, indicate aspect. In other
words, whether an action is or is not completed, and whether an action is a
singular event or a continuing one. The absence of a type 7 suffix usually
means that the event is neither completed of continuous. This is translated
into Galactic/English as simple present tense, unless other words in the
sentence indicate the action is is to take place in the future.

     Action that has already taken place, or has been completed, are denoted
with the following:


          -pu'        perfective. This suffix indicates that an action is
                      completed. It is often translated as 'have done
                      something'.

                      ex:  Daleghpu' (you have seen it)
                           (legh <to see>)

          -ta'        accomplished, done. This suffix is similar to -pu', but
                      it is used when an action is deliberately undertaken.
                      The indication in this case is that someone set out to
                      do something and in fact did it. English translations
                      seldom reveal this distinction.

                      ex: luHoHta' (they have killed him/her)
                          (HoH <to kill>)

                          NOTE: had the act of killing been an accident, or
                                had been a general attack not intended to
                                kill a specific person, then in such cases
                                -pu' would have been used.


     The use of -ta' can be indicated instead with a special completion verb,
rIn (to be finished), and always takes on the suffix -taH, and no pronominal
prefix. The result, rIntaH, literally means 'it continues to be finished' or
'it remains accomplished'. Although the translations of rIntaH and -ta' are
essentially the same, most English renderings lack the notion of absolute
finality that rIntaH implies. -taH can also be used separately from rIn, as
shown below:


          -taH        continuous. This suffix indicates that an action is on-
                      going.

                      ex:  nughoStaH (it is approaching us)
                           (ghoS <to approach>)

                      NOTE: -taH can also be used to imply that the verb is
                            used as an imperative yet continuing command.

                      ex:  yIjun (execute an evasive manuver!)
                           (jun <to evade>)

                           yIjuntaH (take evasive action!)


          -lI'        in progress. This suffix is similar to -taH, in that it
                      indicates that an activity is ongoing. The difference
                      lies in the fact that -lI' implies that the activity
                      has a known goal or a definite stopping point. Or, in
                      other words, it suggests that progress is being made
                      toward that goal.

                      ex:  muja'lI' (he/she/it is telling me)
                           (ja' <to tell>)

                      NOTE: It is possible to consider -lI' a continuous
                            counterpart of -ta', and -taH a continuous
                            counterpart of -pu'.



       -q'est         in progress towards a negative result. This suffix is
                      from Klingonii/Klinhaii dialect, and differs from the
                      others in the fact that it is often used as a noun as
                      well. The exclamation q'est! alone is a common element
                      of the group of 'colorful metaphors' of all known
                      Klingonaase dialects. It often takes on the form
                      Q'est!, but in this form can also obscenely refer to an
                      act of reproduction.

                      ex:  jIHoHq'est (I am killing myself <By either
                                       stupidity or accident>)
                                       (HoH <to kill>)

                           Daleghq'est (you have seen it <implied error on
                                        the part of the object>)
                                        (legh <to see>)



                              TYPE 8: HONORIFIC


     There is only one suffix in this category. It is used to express extreme
politeness or deference, and is used only when addressing a superior, or
someone of higher rank in the Klingon social, political, or military
heirarchy. While it is not 'officially' required, and in some dialects almost
never used, until otherwise corrected the careful student of Klingonaase
would be well advised to use this suffix when speaking to an obvious
superior. Such usage is not dangerous in this case, and is one of the few
cases where a native speaker is most likely to 'politely' offer corrective
information. That is, unless the person to whom the deference is being
expressed prefers such a honorific be used.


          -neS        honorific.

                      ex: qaleghneS (I am honored to see you)
                          (legh <see>)

                      NOTE: In Klingonii/Klinzhaii dialect, this is never
                            used with the neutral honorific pronoun S'Han
                            (the one so noted), as it is considered
                            redundant, and even an insult.



                          TYPE 9: SYNTACTIC MARKERS


     These suffixes are similar to Class 5 Noun suffixes, in that they have
to do with the verb's role in the sentence. The first six suffixes below are
only briefly noted here, and are further covered in PART 7: SYNTAX.


          -DI'        as soon as, when

                      ex: DaleghDI' (as soon as you see it)
                          (legh <to see>)


        -chugh        if

                      ex: choja'chugh (if you tell me)
                          (ja' <to tell>)


          -pa'        before

                      choja'pa' (before you tell me)


          -vIS        while. This suffix is always used with the Type 7 verb
                      suffix -taH.

                      ex:  biQongtaHvIS (while you are sleeping)
                           (Qong <to sleep>)


         -bogh        which. This is the relative clause marker. See part 7
                      for examples.


          -meH        for. This marks purpose clauses. See Part 7 for
                      examples as well.


          -'a'        interorgative. This suffix indicates that the sentence
                      is a yes/no question.

                      ex:  yaj'a' (does he/she understand?)
                           (yaj <to understand>)

                           bIHoH'a' (did you kill him/her?)
                           (HoH <to kill>)


          -wI'        one who does, thing which does. This is the suffix that
                      turns verbs into nouns, as described in PART 4: NOUNS.

                      ex: So'wI' (Cloaking Device)
                          (So' <to cloak, to hide>)

                          joqwI' (flag, standard, banner)
                          (joq <to flutter, to wave>)



     Please keep in mind that these suffixes do follow an order following the
verb, and that only one of each type of suffix can occur within a simgle verb
structure.


     There is, however, one additional set of verb suffixes which do not
follow the rules of order. These are called lengwI'mey (leng <to travel, to
roam> + -wI' <thing which does> + -mey <plural>), or in Galactic/English,
'Rovers'. Rovers are verb suffixes which do not have a fixed position, and
can occur anywhere after the verb with one exception. That exception is that
they cannot occur after Type 9 suffixes.

     Their are two subtypes of rovers, the emphatic and the negative. Their
positions are determined by the meaning intended. In otherwords, they follow
the verb or verb suffix that they are to emphasize or negate.

          -be'        not. This is the general suffix of negation. It follows
                      the concept being negated.

                      ex: qay'be' (it is not a problem)
                          (qay' <be a problem>)

     To demonstrate how sentences can change in meaning with the position of
-be', look at the following sentences:


             choHohvIp   (you are afraid to kill me)

             choHoHvIpbe' (you are not afraid to kill me)

             choHohbe'vIp (you are afraid not to kill me)


     The suffix -be' cannot be used with imperative verbs. For imperative
verbs the following suffix is used:


          -Qo'        don't! won't! This suffix is used in imperatives to
                      denote refusal of a command.

                      ex:  yIja'Qo' (don't tell him/her!)
                          (ja' <to tell>)

                      NOTE: unlike -be', the position of -Qo' does not
                            change. It occurs last in the verb structure,
                            unless that structire is followed by a Type 9
                            suffix. Nevertheless, it is still considered a
                            rover because it is the imperative counterpart to
                            -be'.


          -Ha'        undo. This negating suffix implies not merely that
                      something is not done (as in -be'), but that there is
                      some sort of change of state. In other words, something
                      that was previously done is now undone. It is much
                      better translated into the English suffixes 'mis-',
                      'de-' or 'dis-'. It can also be used if something is
                      done wrongly.

                      ex: Do'Ha' (it is unfortunate...)
                          (Do'<to be lucky, to be fortunate>)


                      Unlike -be', -Ha' can also be used in imperatives:

                      ex: yIchu'Ha'  (disengage it!)
                          (chu' <to engage, to activate>)


                      NOTE: -Ha' always occurs immediately after the verb,
                            and for reasons yet unknown, the Klingons refer
                            to this suffix as a rover even though it occurs
                            in the same place following the verb. In keeping
                            with Klingon tradition, though, -Ha' is
                            classified as a rover.



          -Qu'        emphatic. This suffix emphasizes or affirms whatever
                      immediately precedes it. It can also be used in the
                      same verb structure as another rover, and has no order
                      restrictions save what is mentioned above and that it
                      must never follow a Type 9 suffix.

                      ex: yIHaghqu' (study him/her well)
                          (Hagh <study>)

                      The roving nature of -qu' can be seen in the following
                      set of verb structures:

                      pIHoHvIpbe'qu' (we are NOT afraid to kill you)
                      pIHoHvIpqu'be' (we are not AFRAID to kill you)
                      pIHoHqu'vIpbe' (we are not afraid to KILL you)


                      -qu' is also used in adjective forms:



                                  ADJECTIVES

     In Klingonaase, there are no adjectives as there are in Galactic/
English. These notions are expressed by Klingon verbs immediately followed by
a noun that is modified by the preceding verb.

                      ex:    puq Doy' (tired child)

                      from:  puq  (child)
                             Doy' (to be tired)


     The rover -qu', as mentioned before, may follow verbs acting
adjectivally. In this usage, -qu' is usually translated into English as
'very'.

                      ex:    Dujmey tInqu' (very big ships)

                      from:  Duj   (ship, vessel)
                             -mey  (plural)
                             tIn   (to be big)
                             -qu'  (emphatic)


     -qu' can also be used to modify noun structures as well:

                      ex:    Dujmeyqu' tIn  (very many big ships)

                      from:  Duj   (ship, vessel)
                             -mey  (plural)
                             -qu'  (emphatic)
                             tIn   (to be big)


     One important note should be made, however: If a Type 5 noun suffix is
used in a sentence structure, and -qu' is used to emphasize the verb
modifying the noun, that verb can have no other suffixes.

                      ex:    veng tInDaq (in the very big city)

                      from:  veng  (city)
                             tIn   (to be big)
                             -qu'  (emphatic)
                             -Daq  (locative, in)


         ************************************************************
         *         An Introduction to the Klingon Language          *
         *                                                          *
         *              PART 6: OTHER KINDS OF WORDS                *
         *                                                          *
         ************************************************************


     By far, the bulk of words in Klingonaase are nouns and verbs. There are
few others which are expediently dumped into one pile by Klingon grammarians.
This pile is commonly referred to as chuvmey, or translated in Galactic/
English, 'leftovers'. Still, it is possible to classify these leftovers
somewhat.



                                   PRONOUNS

     In addition to the possessive noun suffixes and the pronominal suffixes
for verbs, there are nine pronouns which are individual words.


             jIH -->  I, me       |     net -->  that
                                  |
             SoH -->  you         |     maH -->  we, us
                                  |
            ghaH -->  he/she      |   tlhIH -->  you (plural)
                      him/her     |
                                  |    chaH -->  they, them (beings)
             'oH -->  it          |
                                  |     bIH -->  they, them (non-beings)
             'e' -->  that        |


     At first glance, it appears that there are actually 10 pronouns. The
main difference between chaH and bIH is that chaH is used for beings who are
capable of speech and possess intelligence, while bIH refers to beings that
possess either speech nor cognitive intelligence. In the case of 'e' and net,
this is discussed in PART 7: SYNTAX.

     There is no grammatical gender distinction in Klingonaase. Third-person
singular pronouns can be translated as 'he' or 'she' as the context dictates.

     Pronouns can also be used as nouns, but only for emphasis or increased
clarity. They, however, are not required. Ergo, the following sets of
sentences are all gramattically correct:

                             legh --> to see
                             ---------------

                 yaS vIlegh jIH          I see the officers
                 yaS vIlegh

                 jIH mulegh yaS          The officer sees me
                 mulegh yaS

                 ghaH vIlegh jIH         I see him/her
                 ghaH vIlegh
                 vIlegh jIH
                 vIlegh



     Note that the last two sentences could in fact be a bit ambiguous, as
they could equally mean 'I see them' as well as 'I see her/him'. If the
context does not make it clear which meaning is intended, then pronouns can
and should be used in translation.


                 ghaH vIlegh             I see him/her

                 chaH vIlegh             I see them


     Pronouns are not used in possessive constructions in the same way nouns
are. Instead, the set of possesive noun suffixes are used. Pronouns can also
be used as verbs, as in the sense of 'I am', etc. Finally, again, when
speaking to a native speaker, usage of pronouns is optional.



                                   NUMBERS


     Originally, the Klingons had a base-3 numeric system, which of course
will get a bit complicated as counting progresses. So, a decimal system was
adopted in order to simplyfy mathmatical and scientific concerns, especially
those that were 'gained' from other civilizations and races.

     The numbers in Klingonaase are as follows. Keep in mind that some words
are different in the various dialects despite attempts at standardized
numeric unification over the past Emperial dynasties.


                   Rumaiym      Klingonii      Kumburan     Daqawlu
                                               /WIjngan

         0 -->       pagh         pach           pagh         Dagh

         1 -->       wa'          Hwa'           wa'          wa'

         2 -->       cha'         Sa             SHa'         cha'

         3 -->       wej          ren            ren'         wej

         4 -->       loS          loS'           loS'         loS'

         5 -->       vagh         wagh           vagh         vagh

         6 -->       jav          ghav           jav'         ghiv'

         7 -->       Soch         Sogh           Soch'        Soch

         8 -->       chorgh       chorgh         ghorgh       chorgh

         9 -->       Hut          HuD'           Hutlh'       Hut'

        10 -->       wa'maH       Hwa'maH        wa'maH       wa'maH


     Higher numbers are formed by adding special number-forming elements to
the basic set of numbers (1-9). Thus, wa'maH (ten) consists of wa' (one) plus
the number-forming element maH (ten). Counting essentially continues as
follows, with the numberforming elements remaining the same throughout all of
the known dialects, with one exception. Thus, Rumaiym is used for clarity:

                 11 -->  wa'maH wa'   (literally, 10 and 1)

                 12 --)  wa'maH cha'  (literally, 10 and 2)

     ..and so on. For higher numbers, the basic numbers are modified with the
following number-forming elements.


                            maH -->  ten

                          vatlh -->  hundred

                            SaD -->  thousand

                          SanID -->  thousand (Kumburan, Daqawlu only)

                          netlh -->  ten thousand

                            bIp -->  hundred thousand

                           'uy' -->  milion

                          SHov' -->  billion


     Thus, the following elements are used as follows. Rumaiym is used for
clarity:


              20 -->  cha'maH       (literally, two tens)

              21 -->  cha'maH wa'   (literally, two tens and one)
              .
              .
              30 -->  wejmaH        (literally, three tens)
              .
              .
             100 -->  wa'vatlh      (literally, one hundred)

             101 -->  wa'vatlh wa'  (literally, one hundred and one)
             .
             .
             etc...


     As numbers progress, the same pattern of construction continues, as in
Galactic/English:

             5,347 -->  vaghSad wejvatlh loSmaH Soch
                        (literally, 5 thousands, 3 hundreds, 4 tens and 7)

     Numbers are used as nouns. As such, they may stand alone as subjects or
objects or they may modify another noun. For example:

               mulegh cha'  (two <of them> see me)

                     from:  mu-    <they - me pronominal prefix>
                            legh   <to see>
                            cha'   <two>


                 wa' yIHoH  (kill one (of them)!)

                     from:  wa' <one>
                            yI- <you - none imperative prefix>
                            HoH <to kill>

     In the case of the second sentence, the use of wa' is only for added
emphasis, as yI- indicates a singular yet unspecified object.

     Numbers can also be used as modifiers by preceeding the noun to be
modified. For example:


                loS puqpu'  or  loS puq  (four children)

            vaghmaH yuQmey  or  vaghmaH yuQ  (fifty planets)


     The plural suffixes, -pu', -mey, are not necessary when a number is used
in the sentence. Again, they are added only for clarity.

     When a number is used for numbering, as opposed to counting, it follows
then noun. For comparison:


                      DuS wa'  (torpedo tube # 1)

                      wa' DuS  (one torpedo tube)


     Ordinal numbers, such as first, second, third, etc., are formed by
adding one of two suffixes to the base numbers. With one exception, the
suffix is the same for all dialects:


                     All dialects |
                     except       |   Kumburan
                     Kumburan     |
                   _______________|_______________
                                  |
                        -DIch     |    -DIgh


     Ordinal numbers always follow the noun they are referring to. By adding
another suffix, the notion of repetitions can be expressed. Again, this
suffix is the same for all dialects save one:


                     All dialects |
                     except       |   Kumburan
                     Kumburan     |
                                  |
                   _______________|_______________
                                  |
                       -loch      |   -tlhogh


     These numbers function as adverbias, which are discussed later on in
this section.


                                 CONJUNCTIONS

     Conjunctions are of two types: those that join nouns together and those
that join sentences together. The meanings of the two types of conjunctions,
however, are the same. The conjunctions listed below are the same for all
known dialects:

             joining            joining             English
             nouns              sentences           translation
            ____________________________________________________

              je                  'ej                  and

              joq                 qoj                  and/or

              ghap                pagh                 either/or


     These conjunctions that join nouns come after the final noun. Look at
the following examples:


              DeS 'uS je        (an arm and a leg)

              DeS 'uS joq       (an arm or a leg or both)

              DeS 'uS ghap      (either an arm or a leg, but not both)


                               nouns used

                    DeS (arm)              'uS (leg)


     The noun conjunction, je, has an additional function: when it follows a
verb it has the same meaning as Galactic/English 'also' or 'too'.

     For example:

                   qaleghpu' je     (I saw you also)
                                           or
                                    (I saw you too)


     This can be a bit ambiguous, so the exact meanings of such conjunction
phrases must be determined from the context of the rest of the sentence.

     In addition to the three listed above, there is one other sentence
conjunction:


                  'ach       but, nevertheless, however, so.


     It should be noted that in the Daqawlu dialect it is often shortened to
'a, while in Klingonii/Klinzhaii dialect it is often substituted with 'agh
or, less often, 'aH.

     As for the usage of sentence conjunctions, this is discussed in PART 7
in more detail.



                                  ADVERBIALS


      Adverbials usually come at the begenning of a sentence, and of course
describe the manner of the activity referred to by the verb of the sentence.
The following is a list of the known adverbials. While others obviously
exist, until they are made commonly availiable the student of Klingonaase
would be advised use noun-verb combinations to produce adverbials not listed
below. Of the following, only the Rumaiym dialectic adverbials are listed:


                   batlh  (with honor, in an honored fashion)
                   bong   (by accident, accidentally, not intentionally)
                   chaq   (perhaps)
                   chIch  (on purpose, puposely)
                   DaH    (now)
                   Do'    (with luck, luckily)
                   loQ    (slightly, a little bit)
                   nom    (fast, quickly)
                   not    (never)
                   pay'   (suddenly)
                   pIj    (often)
                   QIt    (slowly)
                   reH    (always)
                   rut    (sometimes)
                   tugh   (soon)
                   vaj    (thus, in that case, so, accordingly, then)
                   wej    (not yet)
                   qub'   (rarely)


     As for examples of the use of the above adverbials:


            bong yaS vIHoHpu'  (I accidentally killed the officer)
                               (vIHoHpu' <I killed him/her>,
                                yaS <officer>)

            vaj Daleghpu'      (then you have seen it)
                               (Daleghpu' <you have seen it>)


     There is one word that fits somewhat awkwardly in this category, as it
follows the verb which it modifies as opposed to preceeding it as the other
adverbials do.

           neH        only, merely, just.

                      ex:    qama' vIqIppu' neH   (I merely hit the prisoner)

                      from:  qama'     <prisoner>
                               vI-     <I - him/her pronominal prefix>
                               qIp     <to hit>
                              -pu'     <perfective>
                               neH     <merely>


     Also, unlike the rest of the adverbials, neH can follow a noun. In such
cases, neH takes on the meaning 'only' or 'alone'.

                      ex: jonta' neH  (only the engine)

                         vengDaq neH  (only in the city,
                                       in the city alone)


     Adverbials sometimes occur alone, as if they functioned as exclamations.
For example:

                   nom    (move fast! Move quickly!)

                   wej    (Don't do it yet!)

                  tugh    (hurry up!)



                                 EXCLAMATIONS


  In addition to those adverbials that can stand alone, there are expressions
that stand alone as sentences in their own right. These exclamations are
words that are, next to the so-called 'colorful metaphors', the most often
and most easily remembered by non-speakers. In fact, these words are the few
that manage to 'jump across the dialectic gaps' that exist between
Klingonaase dialects, so thse words will most likely be know by a native
speaker regardless of which dialect is being spoken.

     However, while the majority of exclamations listed below are derived
from the Rumaiym dialect, there are some from the other dialects as well.
Note also that the aforementioned 'colorful metaphors' are dealt with
separately from the 'normal' exclamations.


                                Rumaiym

                ghobe'    (no! - response to a question)
                  Ha'     (let's go! Come on!)
               HiSlaH     (yes! - response to a question)
                  luq     (yes, okay, I will)
                  maj     (good - expressing satisfaction>)
               majQa'     (very good, well done)
               nuqneH     (what do you want? <greeting>)
                pItlh     (Done! Finished!)
                  Qo'     (No!, I won't! I refuse!)
                  SuH     (ready!)
                  toH     (well! so! - in guised astonishment or surprise)
               wejpuH     (Charming... - used ironically)


                           Klingonii/Klinzhaii

                 gho'     (no! - response to a question)
                rIst'     (good, well - expressing satisfaction)
                 qaI'     (shout of honor, honorific)
            taI'tlhon     (worthy opponent)
           Sa'tel'ren     (two out of three)
                 SuD'     (ready!)
                va'ng     (acting! - positive response to an order)
               teSQas     (compliments, congratulations)
            jIwa'bej'     ('the one' - personal acknowledgement)

                                 Daqawlu'

                  Su'     (ready)
                  lu'     (okay, yes, I will)
                Hija'     (yes! - response to a command)
               tlheD'     (leave!)
              'laHwI'     (worthy, of worth, valuable)


                             Kumburan/wIjngan

                  'eH     (ready!)
                 tam'     (quiet!)
                 toH'     (well, so, aha! - mild surprise)
               QaIbe'     (shout of victory - '<you> have not won!')


     All of the aforementioned exclamations are used interchangably where
there are cases of overlapping, such as in the Galactic/English words 'yes',
'yeah', 'yea', 'yo', 'yup' and 'uh-huh'.



                                  EXPLETIVES


     The following class of words contains various exclamations most commonly
referred to as expletives or 'colorful metaphors'. These words are
essentially the same as what are called profanities or 'cuss words' in
Galactic/English. It should be noted that although the use of these words is
quite commonplace in Klingonaase, in most other languages such words and
phrases are looked upon as crude and uncivilized. Appropriately enough, these
words often do not follow known rules of order for noun and verb structures,
and can actually use noun and verb parts that have completely different
meanings when used separately or in other sentences.

     On that important note, the student of Klingonaase should keep in mind
that certain similar insults from those other language can actually translate
in to Klingonaase as a compliment of sorts! One notable and somewhat
'cleaner' example is the mid-20th century insult 'your mother's Army boots',
which most Klingons (especially the Daqawlu', who support a unisex military)
would take as high praise of one's linneage! Regardless of the language used,
these words should be used carefully, sparingly, and with appropriate taste.
Of course, Klingons naturally do not follow such guidelines.



                                 Rumaiym


               QI'yaH     (Assume a military duty station - a low, menial
                           position is implied here, such as janitorial
                           duty.)

            ghuy'cha'     (second born - this insult takes on two different
                           relative meanings, depending on the dialect of the
                           object of the phrase. In Rumaiym, this implies
                           that the object is younger than his sister, a very
                           strong Rumaiym taboo since the first-born MUST be
                           a male. In Klingonii/Klinzhaii, this can mean that
                           either the object has no true lineage, or the
                           object's acting father, who's consort is the
                           object's mother, is not the object's real father.
                           In the Da-qawlu dialect, this can mean all of the
                           above, as well as stating that the object is of a
                           lesser race than the speaker.)


             Qu'vatlh      (literally, perform a hundred missions. As in
                            QI'yaH the inference is towards a duty station or
                            task that is considered meanial or below their
                            status. It is similar to the English insult/order
                            'drop and do a hundred push-ups'. In Kumburan,
                            wIjngan and Daqawlu dialects, this takes on quite
                            a different meaning, as it is primarily an insult
                            that is directed towards either a female object,
                            or towards the object's female parent. The
                            implication in that case is that the female is
                            one who 'sleeps around' with quite a number of
                            males. The common Galactic/English translation is
                            a prostitute or 'hooker'.)


           yoH'Ha'qu'      (Traditional phrase calling the object a coward. A
                            literal translation reads 'very unbrave'. This is
                            a traditional challenge between two Rumaiym
                            before a Blood Duel, but is considered a general
                            insult towards any Rumaiym when used by a speaker
                            of another dialect, which can also result in a
                            Blood Duel.)



                          Klingonii/Klinzhaii


                Q'est      (all-purpose expletive. This can be translated
                            into several phrases. For example, it can be
                            translated into the English expletive for
                            consummation of the sex act, as well as the
                            modification of that term to describe either a
                            major error on the behalf of a living object, or
                            a major malfunction on the part of a non-living
                            device.)

             q'est'at      (Variation of Q'est. Although this usually refers
                            to a device that is in a rapidly disintegrating
                            state of performance, when coupled with the words
                            Quv' <slave> or Quv'let'a' <sexually enslaved
                            servitor>, it can be used as an insult towards
                            the object's female parent. That insult takes the
                            forms Quv'q'est'at and Quv'let'est'at,
                            respectively.)

    toQe'Human'Stra'v      (willing slave of a sub-standard race. This is one
                            of the vilest insults a Klingon can say to
                            another Klingon. According to legend, the civil
                            war of General Kagga (whose crown was branded to
                            his head before hid execution) was sparked by
                            then-Emperor Kahar's issuance of this insult over
                            the General's failure to defeat the Federation
                            forces at the battle of Donatu-5. This, according
                            to many scholars of the '5-years' war' between
                            the two 'Empires' is what diverted enough of the
                            Klingons' attention to enable the Federation to
                            regain enough ground to force the Empire to
                            accept a negotiated truce.)


             gh'Day't      (a curse of damnation. This is another all-purpose
                            expletive, with the object referred to as being
                            damned. While this does not usually imply that a
                            deity is being invoked, in Rumaiym usage it does.
                            In such use, the name of the deity relaces the
                            letter  t, and possesses the noun suffix -vo. In
                            reference to anything or anyone else, the  t  is
                            often kept, and the object of the curse follows
                            as a separate word. In Klingonii/Klinzhaii
                            dialect, the gh' is often pronounced as a rather
                            harsh 'guh' with heavy emphasis on the glottal
                            stop.)




                                    NAMES


     One of the most important points about the Klingon language is the
proper pronounciation of Klingon names. Non-speakers frequently mispronounce
the names of Klingons, and when translating into their respective writing
systems they usually end up with spellings that only suggest their true
pronounciations. A prime example is the Klingonaase sound tlh, which is
almost always transliterated into the Galactic/English sound  Kl. Similarly,
Klingon Q is also always translated as Kr, and when occurring at the end of a
name, as English  X. The Klingon  q  is always rendered as K. Thus, the
reason for the use of the transliterated forms of Klingon names (including,
of course, the word Klingon) is primarily to take advantage of the average
non-speaker's familiarity with this somewhat incorrect, yet common form of
rendering Klingon names.

     Names may be used in direct address (that is, calling someone by name)
at the begenning or end of a sentence. Other words in direct address, such as
qaH <sir> or joHwI' <my lord> are used similarly.


                      ex:    torgh HIghoS  (Torg, come here!)
                                           (HIghoS <proceed toward me!>)


     One final aspect of Klingon names has only recently become fully under-
stood. This is the prefix structure of Klingon first names, so unlike the
name structure of most Human names, which consists of a second name to denote
the linneage of the bearer, and a first name to distinguish the bearer from
those who share the line name (whether it be through actual kinship, or
through sheer coincedence), and often a middle name used to honor one or more
particular persons associated with the line in one way or another.

     Klingon names take on this structure instead: the first name is the
line-name from which the Klingon is either born from, has been assigned due
to lack of linneage (an orphan), or has freely chosen in order to start a new
line of his own (an extremely noble, yet often tragic act, as competition
between the lines is often quite violent). The last name is the name that
distinguishes the individual from others of the same line-name.

     Unlike Human names, the middle name takes on a very important meaning in
Klingon names. It is used primarily as a honorific of sorts, denoting just
how much status the bearer has, and what amount of respect he/she should
recieve. a Klingon who has no honorific is either not yet an adult, is a
pariah, or is a 'no-rank' enlisted in one of the Armed Services branches.


                Honorific       meaning

                     taI'       has done nothing notable, but has conducted
                                his/herself accordingly, and is deserving of
                                some respect

                  veStaI'       same as above, yet having done at least one
                                notable act

                   SutaI'       having done several notable acts. Most ship's
                                commanders or landing force leaders have this
                                honorific.

                 HSantaI'       of extreme high honor in both personal
                                actions and of linneage.

                  epetaI'       rarely used for anyone under Klingon
                                middle-age level, unless used as an insult
                                (calling someone an old man or an old fool).
                                Adding the suffix -HSana' to this honorific
                                produces one that is so outlandish that it is
                                ONLY used as an insult, and NEVER in jest.


     As expected, the Daqawlu' do not use the honorifics, as they have
essentially been 'stripped' of them due to whatever act has made them
outcasts. Use of a Daqawlu' name with the honorific usually produces a
violent result from the name bearer, as well as from the person to whom the
speaker is conversing with (if the listener is not a Daqawlu', but is aware
of the person being discussed). Likewise, the omission of the honorific in
the case of a person from the Klingonii/Klinzhaii dialect can produce a
similar result. In every case, with the exception of the Daqawlu', it is
always correct to use the honorific when addressing a native speaker. A
Daqawlu', of course, can usually be detected by the lack of a honorific. Most
Klingons proudly state their honorifics when they introduce themselves,
almost as if it were a silent shout of victory.


     However, regardless of the difference in name structure, the order in
which the name elements are written by native speakers is still the same as
for human names. For example:


                        Qenn SutaI'ruStaSH

                        Qenn      -->  second, distinguishing name

                        SutaI'    -->  honorific, middle name

                        ruStaSH   -->  first, line-name

                                <END OF FILE>
