Subject: Re: REQUEST: could someone repost The Return?
References: <1992Apr2.200508.18071@acsu.buffalo.edu>




                           T H E   R E T U R N
                                   by
                               Howard Chu

A "Star Trek: The Next Generation" meets "Star Wars" story/script.  This
material was distributed in the rec.arts.startrek and
alt.startrek.creative news groups on Usenet during April 1991.  This copy
was obtained from the author on 17 April 1991.  Comments and criticism
should be directed to the author, hyc@hanauma.jpl.nasa.gov (Internet).
=========================================================================

Laforge: All's well that ends well, eh Reg?

Barclay: I-if you say so, Commander.  P-personally, I thought th-things
were well in hand.

Laforge: Yeah, I can see how you might have looked at things that way.
Still, I'm glad we're going to be getting some shore leave soon.  It may
just be a starbase, but it's better than trying to analyze the ship's
computer logs on the ship's computer itself.

Barclay: I c-could've done that a-a lot more easily, you know...

Laforge: Well, yeah.  Anyway....  I just feel a lot more comfortable
about things this way, you know?

<break to>

Riker: Well, we actually got to make contact with a new life form, and
rather painlessly, in fact.  I wish all our missions were so productive.

Picard: Indeed, Number One.  Although I think I've had enough reminders
of just how little we know about the galaxy we inhabit.  I hesitate to
say so, but I must admit that I'm looking forward to a little shore leave
myself.

Troi: Shore-leave, Captain? You? If I couldn't read the thoughts myself I
would swear that you're joking.

Picard: Now Counselor -

Troi: Relax, Captain.  You know *I'm* only joking...

(strained chuckles between Picard and Riker)

Riker: So we're going to Starbase 42...  Isn't that slightly unusual for
a simple shore leave and ugprade stop?

Picard: In what way, Number One?

Riker: Well, it's so close to the Romulan Neutral Zone, as I recall it's
more of a monitoring post than a resort, if you know what I mean.

Data: In fact, Commander, Starbase 42 has three AAA-class hotels with
over 4000 room occupancy and regular tours of gourmet cuisine and diverse
entertainment, as well as

Picard: Thank you Data, that will be enough for now.

Data: Yes, sir.

Picard: At any rate, Will, it should be fairly interesting, also being
situated so close to the galactic rim.  Since we're here already I'm just
happy to have refit facilities so near at hand.

<bleep>

Worf: Sir, incoming message from Base Commander Stone at starbase 42.

Picard: Onscreen, Lieutenant.

Worf: Aye sir. (pause) It is double-encoded sir, the secondary
transmission is for you only.

(pause, meaningful glances...)

Picard: I'll take it in my ready room.  Number One, you have the con.

Riker: Aye sir. (pause, till Picard exits) So much for R&R...

<cut to ready-room, Picard seated, facing Stone on viewer>

Picard: Greetings Commander, to what do I owe the honor of a
doubly-crypted transmission? Surely the Romulans haven't broken our last
codebook already...

Stone: Hello, Captain Picard.  Just arranging some last minute details
for your refit here.  No one knows quite what's going on with the
Romulans, so I decided to use the second code for safety.  Things have
moved quickly in the ten days you were gone, Picard.

Picard: How so? The Romulans are massing for war?

Stone: Maybe, but not with the Federation.  In the past week listening
posts have picked up increasing numbers of military transmissions, while
all our monitor posts have detected *fewer* Romulan warships near the
Neutral Zone.

Picard: But that would mean

Stone: Starfleet thinks the Romulans have encountered a new spacefaring
race, on the far side of their territory.  The drastic shift in military
force indicates that these newcomers have the Romulans worried.

Picard: And anything that would make the Romulans worried makes Starfleet
worried, of course.

Stone: Absolutely.  We still don't have anything solid to go on yet,
which is why Starfleet is sending you into Romulan space.

<break. if i had any sponsors, they'd get to scream at you here.>

...Captain's Log, Stardate (N). We are enroute to Starbase 42 for debriefing
and refitting from our recent journey.  The Enterprise' computer banks
will undergo a complete system dump for transcription to the Memory Alpha
archives for study, while upgrade modifications are made to the ship's
systems.  During the time we were with the Zitherians, the Romulans
apparently made hostile contact with a powerful new race.  The Enterprise
is being sent into the Neutral Zone and possibly into Romulan territory
itself in hopes of gaining more detailed surveillance reports.

<back to the bridge... >

Picard: Ensign, what is our estimated arrival time at Starbase 42?

Ensign: Approximately two days at our current cruising speed of warp two,
Sir.

Picard: Increase speed to warp 5, Ensign.

Ensign: Aye sir, increasing to warp factor 5.

Riker: Something we should know about, Captain?

Picard: Indeed, Number One. (toggle a switch, announce:) Senior staff
meeting in 10 minutes.

<swish on to the turbolift, swish out to the briefing room...>

Riker: So the Romulans have made a new enemy...

Picard: It appears that way, but Starfleet isn't ready to jump on mere
appearances.

Riker: Especially not after our *last* Romulan encounter, no doubt.

Picard: No doubt.  But the Klingon contingent is, understandably, getting
more restless since they see an apparent weakening of their longtime
enemy.  They are currently willing to keep the peace; they see the wisdom
of trying to learn more about the situation, but their impatience
continues to grow.

Worf: A warrior does not go blindly into a fight.  But a true warrior
also knows when the time is right to attack!

Laforge: I wonder if it's the Borg again, they reported attacks similar
to the ones we witnessed before.

Picard: At this point it's anyone's guess, since the Romulans aren't
talking, as usual.  But part of our upgrades will include installation of
Improved Definition phaser arrays and control banks.

Troi: "Improved Definition" ?

Data: The Improved Definition phaser project is an offshoot of the
research undertaken after our first encounter with the Borg.  It is an
enhancement of the frequency shift algorithm we employed against the Borg
in our second encounter, but does not employ all of the enhancements of
the High Definition phaser project for the new Cluster-class starship.
It only involves a few of the principles being explored in the High
Definition

Picard: If we could continue please, Mr.  Data.

Data: Yes Sir.  Sorry, sir.

Picard: It could be the Borg, but no one knows.  Still, the products of
the research taken to prepare for the Borg are the best we have for
facing these unknowns.  Commander Laforge, pick 3 of your team to oversee
the upgrade, the starbase will provide the facilities and necessary
manpower.  You and Mr.  Data will also have responsibility for upgrading
the ship's sensor arrays.  If we can get enough information without
leaving the Neutral Zone then so much the better.

Crusher: No one's even explained yet how we're going to stay in the
Neutral Zone.  What's going on?

Picard: Reports indicate that the majority of the Romulan warships have
been withdrawn from the Neutral Zone to participate in whatever distant
action is occurring.  The Zone is currently being patrolled by a
scattered number of frigates and police ships.

Riker: Sooo...  Starfleet figures there are sparse enough patrols that we
can traipse in unnoticed, or if we are noticed, we can stare down any
Romulan who cares to make a point of it?

Picard: In essence...

<Bridge to Captain Picard: Sir, we're picking up a number of Romulan
distress calls.  All frequencies, linguacoded.>

Picard: On my way. - Well, I think we've covered most of it anyway.
Let's see what these Romulans are really up to...

<break again!>

<back on the bridge>

Worf: The signals are still very faint.  We are now getting enhanced
signals relayed from starbase 42.

Riker: Who ever heard of a Romulan making a distress call?

Picard: Let's see it, Lieutenant.  Onscreen.

<fuzzy, unstable, jagged image of a smoking bridge, lots of transmission
noise...: To any starship, please respond ... life support failing,
engines destroyed ... >

<Image of Base Commander Stone cuts in>

Stone: Enterprise, as you can see, this Romulan is shaken up pretty
badly.  The Klingons have dispatched a squadron of cloaked ships to
investigate.  They should arrive in two hours, but they have not
contacted the Romulans yet.  Starbase out.

Riker: Looks like the Klingons want to hog all the fun to themselves.
Are we going to let them?

Picard: Perhaps not.  Ensign, increase to warp 8.  We may not have time
for all the upgrades, but we can get a better perspective of things from
the starbase.

(Ensign: Increasing to warp 8.)

Picard: Commander Laforge, contact the starbase engineering staff, try to
get a head start on the phaser array upgrades.

Laforge: Aye sir...

Picard: Data, join Mr Laforge in Engineering.  A fair number of systems
are targeted for modification, and I'd like to have as much covered as
possible.

Data: Understood, sir.

<Data exits>

Riker: Then what?

Picard: Then? Then we see what unfolds, Number One.

<engineering...>

Laforge: Whew-ee, these plans call for some pretty comprehensive changes!
Phaser control, sensor array, warp engine output, even modifications to
the photon torpedo systems.  I sure hope those R&D guys know what they're
doing...

Barclay: Th-these phaser control sy-system changes look pretty
s-straight- forward.  I th-think we can f-fabricate the necessary parts
with the replicator.

Data: That sounds plausible.  The reconfiguration should not take long.

Laforge: Great Reg.  Get on it.  Data, let's have a look at these new
sensor and scanner controls...

<bridge...>

Worf: Another transmission from Starbase 42, sir.

Picard: Onscreen, Lieutenant.

Stone: We're about to receive telemetry data from the Klingon ships.
Patching you in, Enterprise.

Picard: Understood, we are receiving.

<Klingon transmission cuts in...  View of a littered solar system,
wreckage of a number of ships all around.  Several Romulan warships can
be seen maneuvering in the distance, in various stages of
cloaking/firing.  Quite a firefight is occurring, in fact.  Some
triangular wedge-shaped vessels are engaging the Romulans.  The wedges
are much larger than the warbirds, although their weaponry does not seem
overpoweringly effective.  Apparently this star system is of some
importance to the Romulans; there is an orbiting starbase and evidence of
a ground base on one of the planets.  The bases are continually firing
plasma torpedoes at the strange wedge-shaped behemoths.  The alien ships
dwarf even the starbase, and appear to be bristling with small beam
weapons.  Smaller flashes of light are frequently seen throughout the
display.>

Riker: Judging from the scale, those ships must be immense!

Troi: I sense ... great evil, Captain.  Something terrible is happening
out there.

<Back to the viewer.  One of the alien vessels is seen to crumple under a
concerted Romulan attack, as multiple globes of plasma energy slam into
it from all sides.  The Romulans are not totally unscathed, however.
Their torpedo firing rate is relatively slow, while the aliens' smaller
weapons fire much more rapidly.  The tremendous firing rate allows them
to damage some warbirds in the process of cloaking and uncloaking...  The
levels of energy being released is awesome, with beams of phaser fire
lancing out from Romulan warbirds and pulsed blasts of energy spraying
from the aliens.>

Picard: Evil? What do you mean?

Troi: Great malevolence is at work here.  Just...  Evil!

<Troi looks increasingly tense/uncomfortable...>

Riker: There's certainly something terrible out there.  That must be at
least a third of the border fleet in action.

<viewer again... there is a tremendous flash of energy, temporarily
blanking out the screen. viewer dims, bridge crew shades their eyes...
view returns. apparently a meteor shower has chosen this moment to pass
thru the vicinity.>

<Troi screams in agony and falls on the floor, unconscious>

Picard: Crusher to bridge, medical emergency! (stands up)

Riker: Deanna! (Rushing to her side...)

Worf: Sir! Tactical telemetry indicates the planet has disappeared! And
one of the moons in the system is now moving in a *linear* path.

Picard: Linear path? That doesn't make sense.

<on viewer... the image begins to distort and momentarily fades into
noise.  The image is rocking unsteadily as it returns more clearly.  No
Romulan vessels are visible, although the starbase and alien ships are
still evident.  The alien ships seem to be regrouping, while another
plasma globe races away from the starbase.  A brilliant beam of energy
flashes out between the moon and the starbase, which begins to glow
pulsatingly.  There is another blinding flash, and then the image
returns.  The starbase is conspicuously absent.  Picard looks visibly
shaken, somewhat pale.  Troi seems to be coming around.  Dr.  Crusher
arrives in the turbolift. [Busy little scene, eh?]>

Crusher: What happened? Deanna, are you alright?

Troi: (moan...) I-I think so... (moan...)

Riker: But what happened?

<Riker and Crusher are still hovering over Troi, who is now sitting up on
the floor.  Crusher is running one of many little feinbergs over Troi and
frowning concernedly...>

Worf: Captain, the Klingon squadron has ceased transmissions.

Picard: Acknowledged.  Worf, raise Commander Stone.

Worf: Aye sir.  Captain, Base Commander Stone is already hailing us.

Picard: Onscreen...

<Riker returns to his seat.  Base Commander Stone is on the viewer.  He
too looks a little pale.>

Stone: I hope you were watching closely, Picard, so you can tell me I
didn't just see a planet destroyed.

Picard: I was indeed, Commander, but I suspect we both saw the same
thing.

Stone: I was afraid you'd say that.  I'm forwarding a report to
Starfleet.  When is the Enterprise going to arrive?

<Picard turns to the navigation officer...>

Ensign: Approximately 24 minutes, sir.

Picard: In 10 minutes, Commander.  We can discuss this further then.

Stone: Fine.  Till then.

<end transmission.  Picard turns to ensign>

Picard: Warp factor 8.2, ensign.

Ensign: Aye sir, increasing velocity to warp factor 8.2.

Riker: So what exactly happened just now? Those alien ships were big, but
they couldn't destroy a planet, could they?

Picard: Hopefully we'll be able to determine that when we dock.
Counselor, are you alright?

Troi: I will be in a moment, Captain.

Crusher: No physical damage evident, but tremendously increased cerebral
bloodflow.  No hemorrhaging, but that must be one heck of a headache.

Troi: All of a sudden, such intense fear, then pain, like a million
voices crying out all at once.  Now ... nothing.  Except ... a lurking
malevolence. <shudder>

<Crusher administers injection...>

Crusher: This should ease the headache, but I think you better come down
to sickbay for a more thorough examination.

Troi: I don't think that will be necessary, Dr.  It was a psychic shock,
not something that would cause physical damage.

Picard: We only have a few minutes, Deanna, but perhaps it would be best
if you spent them resting under Dr.  Crusher's observation.

Troi: Yes sir...

<Troi & Crusher exit to turbolift...>

Laforge: Engineering to bridge

Riker: Go ahead Geordi...

Laforge: Sir, we've recalibrated the sensor array according to these
specifications and have extended our range 35% according to preliminary
testing.  Scanner resolution has also improved.

Picard: Well done, Mr Laforge.  Further testing will have to wait, we'll
be docking at Starbase 42 soon and I'll need you and Data then.  Your
backup crew will have to oversee any further operations.

Laforge: Understood sir.  I'll put Barclay in charge, since he's already
handled it up to this point.  Laforge out.

Riker: Barclay? (sigh...)

Ensign: Sir, we've entered sector 43-12.  Ready for docking approach in 2
minutes.

Picard: Acknowledged, Ensign.  Drop to impulse.

Ensign: Aye sir.  Impulse power only.

<Enterprise drops out of warp, starbase 42 can be dimly seen in the
distance.  Enterprise rapidly approaches while decelerating, then is held
in a starbase tractor beam.  Docking completes...>

<Seems like another good breaking point.....  At this point, 99% of you
are probably saying "Geeze, *That's* what all this was building up to??"
Well, someone had to do it, right?>

<Now in a briefing room on Starbase 42.  Base Commander Stone and two of
his aides are present, along with the Enterprise senior officers.  A
Klingon officer is speaking via the viewscreen.>

K'lnok: The alien battleships docked with the battlestation shortly after
the starbase was eliminated.  We have been unable to detect further
activity, and are approaching with full cloaking.  There has been no sign
of any surviving Romulan warships.  We will resume contact in one hour.
K'lnok out.

Stone: The Klingons have maintained radio silence to avoid detection,
with a few

intermittent dispatches like the one you just saw.  We have not been able
to converse with them since their telemetry relays stopped.

Picard: Has Starfleet been notified of the latest developments?

Stone: Yes, but we've received no reply yet.  Your previous orders will
stand until further notice.

Riker: Even with the improvements made to our sensors we won't get a
better picture than you'll get here on this starbase.  What's the point
of sending the Enterprise into Romulan space to monitor a situation that
the Klingons can already monitor? Especially since they can move freely
with their cloaking devices?

[ed: So we'll have a story to watch, obviously!! }-) ]

Riker: If I may speak candidly sir, I must say that something about these
orders doesn't make any sense.

Stone: As you've guessed, there are other motives here.  We have enjoyed
a prosperous, peaceful alliance with the Klingons for many years now, but
no one can overlook their natural warrior instincts.  In fact, a few
members of the Federation Council have expressed some concern about the
Klingons being the first Federation representatives to make contact with
these aliens.  I'm sure you can appreciate these concerns - um, no
offense, Lieutenant Worf.

Worf: None taken, *Sir*.

Picard: So we are actually now being assigned to make contact with these
aliens?

Stone: Yes, if at all possible, find out where they're from, what sparked
their conflict with the Romulans, what they're ultimately seeking.  We
want to establish peaceful contact with this race.

Riker: That could be interpreted as a hostile act by the Romulans,
though.  Never mind that simply violating the Neutral Zone is an act of
war.

Stone: That's a risk we'll have to take.  These aliens are too powerful
to be allowed to remain unknowns.  We have to learn more about them, see
if they pose any threat to the Federation.  We can justify your initial
entry into Romulan space as response to distress calls.  We're betting
that the Romulans will be too busy with the aliens to offer much
objection.

Picard: Since we *are* dealing in unknowns, it would seem wiser to wait
it out, since we *know* violating Romulan Space is an act of war.

Stone: Jean-Luc, we're not here to debate Starfleet orders.  And
Starfleet doesn't want to get caught unaware.  Given the destructive
power we've witnessed, the problem may grow too large to handle if we
wait it out.

Picard: Yes, but what I mean is

<Klaxon interrupts.>

Voice: Alert.  Intruder detected in sector 43-13.  Commander Stone please
report to the bridge.

Stone: That's in the Neutral Zone! I wonder what the devil is going on.
We'll have to talk more later, Picard.  I suggest you and your crew
return to your ship, we may need your services sooner than we thought.

<break>

<Bridge of the Enterprise.>

Picard: Data, link us in to the starbase commnet.  Let's see what's
happening.

Data: Aye, sir.

Picard: Bridge to Engineering -

Barclay: Engineering, B-Barclay here, sir.

Picard: What's the status of our warp drive upgrade? Is Commander Laforge
there yet?

Barclay: He j-just arrived sir.  A f-full status report is on-on the way.

Picard: Fine.  Picard out. (turn to stare at viewer...)

<A relatively empty region of space.  A wedge-shaped ship is visible, and
a number of tiny points of light seem to be ejecting from the underside
of the ship.>

Riker: How did they get there so fast?

Picard: Let's not jump to conclusions Number One.  We don't know that
this is one of the ships we watched before.  Data, can you increase the
magnification?

What are those objects being ejected?

Data: Increasing.  Scanners indicate the objects in question are
metallic, no life signs indicated.  They appear to be small
self-propelled probes of some kind.  Judging from the number and
trajectories, the aliens would seem to be surveying the star systems in
that sector.

Riker: Surveying? So they're on a mission of conquest and colonization?

Worf: Pardon the intrusion, sir.  Klingons fight for conquest.  That
battle station was *not* designed for conquest.  One cannot expand one's
empire by vaporizing the member planets.

Riker: Point taken, Mr.  Worf.  But if they're not colonizing, then what
*are* they doing here?

Picard: Counselor - can you pick up any impressions that would shed light
on the question?

Troi: Sorry Captain, the distance is too great.  I cannot isolate their
thought patterns from everything else in the intervening space.

Worf: Sir, the starbase is receiving another transmission from Captain
K'lnok.

Picard: Onscreen, Lieutenant.

Worf: Aye sir.

<View of bridge of Klingon Bird of Prey, K'lnok seated in foreground,
staring forward.>

K'lnok: Federation Starbase, this is Captain K'lnok.  We have lost
contact with the alien warships.  We are now scanning the area for
survivors.

<Red alert goes off on Klingon bridge.  K'lnok turns away, switching to
battle language.  A few short barking commands are heard, and the
transmission ends.>

Picard: Worf, what happened to their signal?

Worf: They switched off, sir.  The aliens reappeared in their sector, and
Captain K'lnok ordered full cloaking.  That is all I heard before the
channel closed.

Data: Sir, the alien vessel has changed course and is accelerating.

Picard: What is its new heading?

Data: 268.7 mark 3.  Sir, it is on a direct intercept course with our
current coordinates.

Picard: Alert Commander Stone.  Data, what is their ETA?

Data: They are still traveling at sublight speeds, but continue to
accelerate.  I cannot determine their maximum velocity or estimated time
of arrival as yet, Captain.

Worf: The starbase personnel are aware of the course change, Sir.  They
have gone to red alert.  We are being cleared to disengage from the
spacedock.

Picard: Ensign, take us out of dock.  Lieutenant Worf, sound red alert.
(aside) where is that engineering status report??

Laforge: Engineering to Captain Picard

Picard: Go ahead, Commander.

Data: Captain, the alien vessel has disappeared from sensors.

Picard: Number One, take care of Geordi's report.  Data, what do you mean
"disappeared" ?

Data: They were accelerating to lightspeed, sir.  The moment they
attained lightspeed they vanished from the sensors.

Worf: Sir, sensors are now picking up a subspace anomaly, bearing 352.

Picard: Onscreen.

<view of typical starfield, with a blurred region in the center.
Suddenly the familiar wedge-shape appears as the blurring subsides.>

Picard: Lieutenant, hail the alien vessel.  All freqencies.

Worf: Aye sir.

Picard: Number One, what is our weapons status?

Riker: Thanks to Lieutenant Barclay, we have Improved Definition phasers
available.  But Geordi is still working on increasing the warp engine
output to provide sufficient energy for the new phasers.

Worf: The alien vessel is not responding.

Picard: Keep trying, Lieutenant.  Can we fire the phasers with our
current warp configuration?

Riker: Yes, but only for a limited amount.  The old power couplings won't
hold up to the higher energy levels for very long.

Picard: With luck it won't come to that.

Riker: I'd like to know how they found us so quickly...

Picard: Indeed, Number One.  Unfortunately they're not giving us the
opportunity to ask.

Ensign: We are clear of the spacedock, sir.

Picard: Lay in an intercept course with the alien vessel, one-half
impulse.

Ensign: Course plotted and laid in, sir.

Picard: Engage.  Counselor, what can you make of the aliens now?

Troi: I sense a note of surprise, Captain.  And also a slight hint of
fear and apprehension.  They seem to think we are the Romulans, Captain!
They were not expecting to find us here.

Picard: Indeed.  Fear of us? Fear of the Romulans?

Troi: I'm not sure, sir, but I don't think so.  I can't pick up anything
more specific.

Picard: Lieutenant Worf, any luck hailing the vessel?

Worf: None sir.  They are apparently capable of receiving our
transmissions but are ignoring them.

<On the viewer - the alien vessel looms closer.  Small points of light
are again seen to be darting from the underside of the ship.>

Riker: More probes? (looking confused. he's good at that look, eh?)

Data: Negative.  I am detecting life signs.  The small objects appear to
be piloted spacecraft.

Picard: What is our current range?

Data: Twenty thousand megameters and closing, sir.

Riker: Are those smaller vessels armed?

Data: That is highly probable.  Energy levels are too high to be
accounted for solely by their propulsion systems.

<viewer again - gosh, is that thing *ever* gonna run out? A vast number
of tiny lights can now be seen streaking toward the Enterprise.>

Riker: Raise shields.

Worf: Shields raised, sir.

Picard: Are we still tied in to the Starbase communications net?

Data: Affirmative.

Picard: Good.  Link our fire control scanners to the Starbase scanners.

Riker: Afraid they'll overwhelm our targeting systems?

Picard: It's a possibility we cannot rule out, Number One.  We may still
be able to communicate peacefully, but the likelihood of that seems to be
decreasing.

Data: Range is twelve thousand megameters, sir.  The smaller craft are
approaching at approximately eight tenths of lightspeed.  The larger
vessel is also continuing to approach.

Picard: Lieutenant Worf, try to open a channel again.  Broadcast this
message: "To unidentified vessel.  You are encroaching on Federation
territory.  Stop and identify yourselves or we will be forced to take
action against you."

Worf: Aye sir, opening channel. ...  Sir, they are responding.

Picard: Onscreen!

<A human appears onscreen, wearing a drab-green uniform with various
decorations.  A vast control deck can be seen behind him, with figures in
black or white armor or uniforms moving in the background...>

Ozzel: This is Admiral Ozzel of the Imperial Star Destroyer Ventooin.  We
do not recognize the sovereignty of your "Federation" over this space.
We have traced your communications with rebel ships and recognize you to
be aiding enemies of The Empire.  Surrender and prepare to be boarded.

Picard: (gestures to cut the channel) Rebels? Surrender? Counselor, can
you tell what he's talking about?

Troi: He must be referring to the Klingon vessels, sir.  I sense
anticipation, this Admiral is waiting to hear how other task forces have
fared.

Riker: They must have intercepted K'lnok's report of looking for
survivors.  Then they traced the source and destination of the signal to
reach us and the Klingons!

Data: That seems highly likely sir.  This vessel was situated nearly
between us at the time.

Picard: (nodding to Worf to reopen the channel) This is Captain Jean-Luc
Picard, of the Federation Starship Enterprise.  We know nothing of the
rebels of whom you speak.  We seek only to communicate and establish
peaceful relations with your people.  Why do you wish us to surrender? We
have no quarrel with you.  However, I must repeat my prior warning, and
ask you to cease your advance into Federation space.

<channel closes, returning to starfield.  The alien ships are much closer
now.>

Riker: Well, that didn't seem very friendly.

<A small tremor passes through the ship.>

Picard: What was that?

Data: The small alien spacecraft have opened fire.  They appear to be
using pulsed energy beam weapons.

Riker: Any damage?

Data: None sir, shields are holding.

Picard: Lieutenant, fire a low-intensity warning shot at the mother ship.
Target one degree off their bow.  Let's give them one more chance to
desist.

Worf: Aye sir.

<Phaser fires, lancing out toward the wedge-shaped vessel, missing by a
tiny margin.>

Riker: Think they'll take the hint, sir?

Picard: We'll know soon enough, Number One.

<The main batteries open up on the star destroyer.  The Enterprise is
rocked by a large number of energy blasts.>

Picard: Damage report!

Worf: Shields are holding at 90%, sir.  Minor disturbances on decks 9 and
22.

Picard: Arm photon torpedoes, ready phasers.  Lock on the mother ship.

Worf: Torpedoes armed, phasers locked on target.

<A flight of TIE fighters zooms in on the viewer, blasters firing.  More
small tremors as the fighters veer out of view.>

Picard: This is damned annoying.  Fire photon torpedoes, delta cluster.

Worf: Firing photon torpedoes.

<A volley of torpedoes lashes out.  One intercepts an unfortunate TIE
fighter, which is vaporized instantly.  The others diverge, MIRV-style,
detonating at the star destroyer.>

Data: A hit, sir.  They seem to have deflector screens, no structural
damage is evident.

Picard: Inform the starbase of our action.  That ship should be entering
their weapon range soon.

<More pounding.  The ship rocks again.>

Riker: That was different - where did it come from?

Data: A small projectile, sir, very dense.  Composed primarily of
protons.  Apparently these gunships have a diverse complement of weapons.

Worf: Shields down to 72%, sir.

<Another impact...>

Picard: Begin evasive maneuvers!

Data: Sir, we are completely surrounded by these craft, and they are
orders of magnitude more maneuverable.

<Yet another impact...>

Riker: Worf, lock phasers on any small fighters, wide dispersion.  Fire
at will.

Worf: Aye sir.  Firing.

<Phaser fire lances out from banks along the saucer and the main hull.
The beams hit targets before they have widened appreciably.  Three beams
strike, three fighters vaporize.>

Data: Sir, phaser energy conduits are approaching danger zone.  Critical
in 20 seconds at present rate of fire.

Riker: Another round, Worf.  Dammit sir! We can track them but we can't
hit so many targets.

Picard: Indeed, Number One.  We're wasting our firepower destroying such
tiny objects.

<Another tremor...  The star destroyer is closing ground, and unleashing
another volley.>

Worf: Shields at 61%.  Phasers deenergized.  Minor injuries reported.

Picard: Full reverse.  Let's put some distance between us and that star
destroyer

before it lives up to its name.

Data: The gunships are pursuing, sir.  They appear to have only
forward-firing weapons; they can only attack when they are facing us.

Picard: Interesting...  Worf, ready tractor beam.  Select targets as they
enter facing trajectories.  Filter out other objects from the targeting
system until they attain firing threshold.  Activate when ready.

Worf: Aye sir.  Targeting computers reprogrammed, tractor beams ready.

<A trio of TIE fighters zooms in on an attack run, in tight formation.  A
tractor beam shoots out from the Enterprise saucer, locking onto all
three craft at once.  The effect is like that of a brick wall; the
fighters crumple under the sudden deceleration.  They explode somewhat
slowly, as the tractor beam is still active.>

Riker: Brilliant! (beaming at Picard)

Picard: Thank you, Number One.  However, we're not out of the fire yet.
Also, I was only expecting to hold them out of attack position, I didn't
realize the craft couldn't handle the stress of deceleration.

Riker: Well, it was still an excellent idea, sir.

<Another impact rocks the ship.  Tractor beams are locking in all around
the ship, but there are still too many fighters, though their numbers are
slowly declining.>

Worf: Shields are down to 30%! Structural damage reported on decks 23
thru 29.  Sickbay reports casualties throughout the ship.

Picard: But even that may not be enough.  Data! Quickly, transmit to
starbase: Lock tractor beams on us, and cycle every 30 milliseconds.
Ensign, cut impulse, full stop.

Ensign: Full stop, aye!

Data: Message acknowledged, sir.

<The Enterprise is completely enveloped in the starbase tractor beam,
which is shimmering rapidly.  In a few moments most of the TIE fighters
are crushed or torn apart as the beam fluctuates.  The remaining fighters
turn and head for their mother ship, which has continued to approach.
Riker is about to congratulate Picard again, when suddenly...>

Worf: Sir, sensors detect new subspace anomalies!

Picard: Onscreen, Mr.  Worf!

<Two more star destroyers shimmer into view...>

Riker: Our options for peaceful contact seem to be dwindling, sir.

Picard: I'm well aware of that, Number One.  This is exactly the kind of
situation Starfleet wanted to avoid.  Now we're facing an interstellar
war with a race we've only been aware of for a little over a week!

Riker: Well, if they want a war they picked a helluva bad spot to start.
We've seen these star destroyers' firepower; they won't even faze our
starbase.

Picard: Let's not get too overconfident, Will.  They didn't just politely
tap our shields just now either.

<The Enterprise has been drawn aside the docking bay of the starbase.
The Trio of star destroyers is standing off, halting their advance.>

Riker: What are they waiting for? They seemed in such a hurry to advance
on us a few moments ago.

Troi: Their commander is experiencing grave doubts, Sir.  I sense that
Admiral Ozzel is having difficulty committing to a course of action.

Riker: Doubts? Maybe those one-man craft were their primary means of
offense?

Data: That is a likely hypothesis, sir.  Analysis of the overall design
of the star destroyers would indicate they are unaccustomed to fighting
ships of a comparable size.

Picard: Explain this analysis, Data.

Data: Sir, the armaments they have so far displayed are not the size one
would expect for dealing with ships of such mass.  The number, size, and
rate of fire indicates an arsenal targeted at small gunships, such as the
ones launched against us, or possibly ships up to the size of a patrol
cruiser.  Their beam weapons were individually too weak to greatly affect
our shields, but they obviously have the technology to implement larger
weapons.  Also, they were unable to coordinate a concentrated firing of
their weapon turrets against us, further supporting the hypothesis that
their vessels are designed to deal with multiple small independent
targets.

Riker: But how does that explain that battlestation we saw?

Data: I do not know, sir.

Picard: That's very interesting, but I don't know how it will help us in
the immediate situation.  Counselor, you said you sensed doubt in the
alien commander.  Can you learn anything more? Perhaps we can capitalize
on those doubts some way.

Troi: I don't know, Captain, I'm not picking up anything now.  It's as if
my senses were being jammed...

Worf: Sir, motion detectors are picking up an object closing at high
speed.

Picard: Identify, Mr.  Worf!

<A pair of Klingon Birds of Prey swoops in in the distance, weapons
blazing as they drop cloak.  A closer view of the "new" star destroyers
reveals a number of burn marks and battle scars.  The Klingon vessels
unload a barrage of disruptor bolts in tight formation, while a number of
phasers dotted around each ship pick off the returning TIE fighters.  The
rightmost star destroyer shudders under the disruptor blasts.  The star
destroyers return fire, scoring several hits on the Klingons.>

Riker: Just when you thought you'd seen it all...

<The Klingon vessels bank hard for another pass.  A warp engine is
visibly damaged on one ship, hampering it's maneuvering slightly.  Both
Klingons fire another volley, and the star destroyer explodes in a
blinding flash.  The two remaining star destroyers continue firing, until
the Klingon ships pass behind them.  Phaser beams continue to lash out as
the Klingons fly by.>

Riker: They don't have rear-firing weapons!

Picard: So it would seem...

<The star destroyers diverge and accelerate.  They appear to be trying to
avoid getting outflanked.  The Klingon ships have not completed their
turns yet, and have momentarily stopped firing.>

Worf: They are attempting to escape!

Riker: What?

<Sure enough, the two big lugs continue to accelerate and flash off,
vanishing.  The Klingons decelerate.>

Picard: We seem to have been given a reprieve! Hail the Klingons, um,
Klingon vessels, Mr.  Worf.

Worf: Aye sir.  Channel is open.

Picard: Greetings, Klingon Commander.  It is a great pleasure to be
speaking to you.  I am Captain Picard, of the starship Enterprise.

K'lnok: I am K'lnok, Captain of the Vindicator.  We have many things to
discuss, Captain Picard.

Picard: Agreed.  Perhaps we should dock and continue our discussion on
the base facilities.

K'lnok: An acceptable proposal.  We have need of a shipyard.  K'lnok out.

Riker: We better tell Commander Stone to expect more company...  And we
should requisition additional technicians to get on the refit.

Picard: Make it so.  Lieutenant Worf, inform Commander Stone.

Worf: Aye, sir.

<Break to starbase briefing room.>

K'lnok: Two of the alien vessels returned during our previous
transmission.  They must have planned an ambush but were no match for our
firepower.  The cowards escaped again, leaving almost no trace.

Picard: Yes, we've noticed the peculiarity of their drive systems.  How
did you discover that this was their destination?

K'lnok: Our sensors detected residues from their propulsion system.  They
use a crude type of ion engine, once we discovered the ion emissions we
could detect tremendous amounts ejected by their engines.  We were able
to plot the ships' trajectories based on these traces and followed until
we encountered them here.  We were still unable to track the vessels on
our scanners.

Riker: Ion engines? They'd leave a trail like a flare...  But our sensors
couldn't pick them up until just before they arrived.

Stone: Even the base scanners didn't pick them up.  But we're recording
massive ion traces now.

Laforge: That's no surprise.  If they're using ion engines, they must be
enormous to move ships of that size.  But that doesn't explain their
translight capability, or why it doesn't leave any traces at translight
speeds.  We always tracked them right up to lightspeed, then .. nothing.

Picard: It seems we continue to face questions with no sign of any
answers.  We cannot effectively deal with a threat if we cannot detect
when it will arrive.

Data: The solution is elementary.  Uh, sirs.  The alien vessels leave no
ion trace in the intervening space because they do not traverse that
space.

Riker: What do you mean, Data, how can they travel distance without
traversing the distance?

Data: By eliminating the impossible, what remains, no matter how
improbable, must be the truth.  Sir, our own communications and
transporter systems are based on subspace technology - they do not
operate in normal space.

Riker: Yes, but we know that only energy forms can be transferred through
subspace, not matter.  Are you proposing that they use transporters to
beam their ships from point to point?

Data: No sir, the energy costs would be prohibitive.  However, another
alternative exists - theoretically, matter endowed with sufficient
kinetic energy could be elevated to another dimension, a hyperspace.  The
theory was in its infancy in the twenty-first century on Earth, but no
practical results were achieved and research was abandoned with the
advent of the warp drive.

K'lnok: We too have recorded such research.  It was proven to be
impractical to implement.

Picard: Judging from what we've seen so far, these aliens have a
different standard of what is "practical." Data, access all records
relevant to the topic.  We need a way of detecting these vessels while
they are in transit.  We know there is a delay, the transition into and
out of hyperspace is not instantaneous.  There must be a way of tracking
them while they are in flight.  Mr Laforge, go with Data and work out a
means for detection.

Data: Aye sir.

Laforge: On our way, Captain. <Data & Laforge exit>

K'lnok: We found no survivors in the Romulan sector, and only minimal
Romulan ship debris.  It is likely that their vessels cloaked and escaped
in time to avoid destruction.

Picard: What about alien survivors?

K'lnok: We found only the remnants of their fighter craft.  None of the
pilots survived to be taken prisoner.

Picard: Prisoner? We have not declared war with these aliens.

K'lnok: A slip, I meant "to be rescued."

Stone: Well, the Federation may not formally be at war but we are on a
war footing here.  This base monitors a highly sensitive area, we have to
track shipping thru the Neutral Zone in three bordering sectors.  Our
regular patrol craft are totally outclassed by this menace.

K'lnok: And we have yet to discover the location of the battlestation.
If you will excuse me, I must file another report with the High Command.

Stone: By all means, Captain.

<K'lnok exits.>

Troi: Captain, I believe we should return to the ship.

Picard: Why do you say that, Counselor?

Troi: I'm feeling .. a premonition, of sorts.  We haven't much time, sir.

Picard: Commander, I suggest you alert your personnel.  I know it's not
much to go on but I've come to trust my officers' instincts.

Stone: I understand, Captain. <Expression of total non-understanding, of
course.> I think we've covered as much as we can for now.

<break>

<view of starbase 42.  Enterprise moored along exterior bay.>

Captain's Log, supplemental: After a brief encounter with the alien
vessels, we have returned to dock at Starbase 42.  We still have no means
of detecting the approach of the alien vessels.  Counselor Troi has been
experiencing premonitions of impending doom, but several hours have now
passed uneventfully.  The ship remains at yellow alert, as is the
starbase.  The Klingon vessels were recalled to other duties by the High
Command.  No further messages have been detected from the Romulans.  All
seems quiet.

<bridge...>

Riker: What news have you got, Geordi?

Laforge: Well sir, Data and Mr.  Barclay are working out a prototype for
their hyperspace scanner in holodeck 2.  I just came to deliver the
damage report.

Picard: Proceed.

Laforge: Phaser couplings are now fully operational, and shields are back
to full efficiency.  Also, we've installed an additional polarity
detector in the shield controls.  This should increase shield
effectiveness in deflecting charged particles, like those proton
torpedoes.

Picard: Good work.

Riker: Well, that ought to take care of those fighters.

Troi: Captain, I'm sensing it again.  Intense evil, it's getting closer!

Picard: Ensign, prepare to exit spacedock.  Lieutenant Worf, anything on
the sensors?

Worf: Negative sir.  Sensors detect nothing unusual.

Picard: Takes us out, Ensign, ahead one half impulse.

Ensign: Aye sir.

Picard: Lieutenant, contact the starbase..  Find out if they've picked up
anything.

Worf: Aye sir. <pause> Nothing within scan range, sir.

Troi: It *is* there, Captain.  I'm certain of it.

Picard: Ensign, lay in an elliptical course.  I want a full sweep of this
system, focused on the starbase.

Ensign: Aye aye, sir.  Course plotted and laid in.

Picard: Engage.

<Enterprise moving in foreground, starbase fading back.>

Riker: Sir, the starbase has much greater detection range.  If they can't
see anything, we won't see it.

Picard: Probably true, Will, but if there really is something out there
I'd prefer to go looking for it rather than wait for it to find us.

Worf: Sir, subspace anomaly detected, bearing 339 mark 25!

Picard: Onscreen, Lieutenant!

<viewer now shows empty space, a slight rippling, and then a flashy entry
of ... the Death Star, with the requisite train of "support" ships, i.e.,
a couple super star destroyers, some star destroyers, you get the
idea...>

Picard: Hail the aliens, Mr.  Worf.

Worf: Aye sir. <pause> (under breath) I do not believe they came here to
talk.

Riker: What was that, Lieutenant?

Worf: Channel open, sir.

Vader: <breathing apparatus rasp liberally inserted here...> My admiral
reported some difficulties dealing with you.  I am here to sort them out.

Picard: This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation starship
Enterprise.  I must warn you that you are violating Federation <suddenly
stops speaking>

Vader: Your Federation means nothing to me.  You have aided enemies of
the Empire.  You have assaulted Imperial troops.  Now you shall learn the
price for crossing the Empire.

<Picard is now gasping, hands around his throat, and sinking to his
knees.>

Riker: Captain! <gestures to Worf - "close the channel"> Red alert, Mr.
Worf! Raise shields!

<Riker and Troi move to Picard, who is now kneeling and gasping.>

Riker: Medical emergency! Dr Crusher to the bridge immediately!

<center on Riker's face, fade out...>

<fade back in to Enterprise bridge.  Battle stations, red lights
flashing.>

Riker: Dr.  Crusher to the bridge immediately!

Troi: He's being attacked telepathically, I can feel it! Captain, you
must relax your body, stop struggling physically! Concentrate your mind
on resisting! We can fight it but you must focus your thoughts
completely.

<Picard is still kneeling, but straightens up.  Beads of sweat cover his
face, but he appears to have mastered his initial shock.>

Riker: Deanna - <she shushes him with her arm.  Troi and Picard's eyes
are locked together in concentration.>

Worf: Sir, the aliens are launching multiple fighter craft.  Estimated
intercept in 2 minutes.  Phasers ready.  Shall I arm photon torpedoes?

<Riker snaps back to attention on the viewer.  The Imperial forces are
still distant.  The Death Star is a shimmering globe, with Star
Destroyers scattered around it.  Several squadrons of TIE fighters appear
as tiny points of light speeding forward.>

Riker: Affirmative, Worf.  Arm forward *and* rear launchers.  From what
we know so far it's a fair bet these aliens have never seen warp drive.
How far to the main ships?

Helmsman: Range is approximately 12,000 megameters, sir.

Riker: Ensign, set course 357 mark 35.  Give me a .3 second burst of
maximum warp on my mark.

Navigator: Aye, sir!

Riker: Worf, prepare to target rear torpedo launchers.  After we move I
want you to hit the closest target in the rear firing arcs.  Full spread,
maximum yield.

Worf: Aye sir, photon torpedoes ready!

Riker: Now, Ensign!

<From behind the Enterprise we look forward and see the Imperial fighters
racing forward in precise formation.  Suddenly the Enterprise warp
engines engage, throwing the ship forward and slightly upward.  The TIE
fighters, Death Star, and Star Destroyers flash past underneath the ship
as the Enterprise stops well behind the Imperial ships.>

Riker: Mr.  Worf?

Worf: Photon torpedoes locked on target, sir.

Riker: Fire!

Worf: Aye sir!

<Four torpedoes are launched in rapid succession from the rear of the
ship.  As the sparkling orbs of energy streak toward the rear of a Star
Destroyer, the first explodes in space, obliterating the Destroyer's rear
shields.  The next collides with the control towers, incinerating them.
The other two enter an engine exhaust port, triggering a massive
explosion that completely shatters the vessel.  The explosion is also
witnessed on the Enterprise viewscreen, as looks of relief appear on the
faces of the bridge crew.  Riker doesn't have time to savor this victory,
however, as we see Picard slump forward into Troi's arms, gasping.
Troi's face is lined with sweat, and she is looking very weary.>

Troi: Captain!

Riker: Deanna, what happened?

<Dr.  Crusher arrives from the turbolift, looks, and hurries forward.>

Picard: I'm (gasp) alright.

Troi: It stopped, he's free now.

Crusher: What are you talking about? What stopped?

Troi: The Captain was attacked telepathically; he was being strangled.
The attack stopped just a moment ago.

Crusher: Strangled? We'd better make sure you're alright, Jean-Luc.

Riker: Better make it fast, Dr.  We surprised them just now but that
won't last much longer.

Worf: Sir, the enemy vessels are changing course.

<External view, the Star Destroyers appear somewhat chaotic as they try
to turn and bear on the Enterprise.  The TIE fighters are also turning
slowly, as the Imperial forces try to assimilate what has just happened.>

Crusher: This TriOx compound should help clear your head faster, Captain.

<Crusher injects Picard with the TriOx.>

Picard: Thank you Dr. <stands up, returning to seat.> What is our status,
Number One?

Riker: We have just warped behind the aliens and destroyed one of their
vessels, Sir.  I suggest we turn and prepare for a second assault.

Picard: Make it so. <leans back in chair, still looking pale.>

Riker: Ensign, set course 180 mark 0.  Turn us around!

Navigator: Aye aye, sir.

<The Enterprise wheels around, as the TIE fighters attempt to close in
again.  The larger vessels are still in the distance, although they and
the Death Star are steadily approaching.>

Picard: Well Counselor, it appears that we have encountered the source of
the intense evil you've been sensing.  The question is, how do we combat
that sort of attack? Our shields are of no help.

Troi: I'm not certain, Captain, but I believe it must take great
concentration to achieve such effectiveness.  Possibly the destruction of
the enemy vessel distracted the being enough to break his mindlink with
you.

Picard: If only we had more time to analyze the situation.  Picard to
Commander Data -

Data: Here, sir.

Picard: You'll have to suspend your work on the hyperspace scanner, Mr.
Data.  We need you here on the bridge.

Data: Acknowledged.  On my way, sir.

Riker: Captain, our conventional weapons far outclass theirs.  If we're
going to be vulnerable to psychic attacks as well, though, I suggest we
take out as many of their units as possible before they get another
chance.

Troi: I don't believe they are all psychics, sir.  I have only sensed one
mind of appreciable power, and the evil emanates from there.

Picard: Can you pinpoint the location of that being?

Troi: Somewhat.  My own telepathic powers are limited, and directional
senses are always imprecise, but I am fairly certain he is on that base
station.

Picard: Then that is our target.  We cannot reason with them, so we must
disable them before that base station can destroy another starbase.

<break to ... the command bridge of the Death Star.>

Vader: Report, commander.  What happened?

Commander: We don't know yet, sir.  One moment they were ahead of us, and
our fighters were closing in, then suddenly they were behind us.
Whatever drive system they're using, it's unlike any we've ever seen
before.

Vader: You said they were using fusion-based propulsion reactors.

Commander: Yes, yes, that's what the sensors said, that's what they say
now, but for a moment they read something totally different.

Vader: You should pay more attention to verifying your facts, Commander.
You are not sounding very rational.

Commander: Yes, Lord Vader.

Vader: How are your forces currently deployed?

Commander: The fighter squadrons are closing with the cruiser, they
should engage it shortly.  They will break off and form an enclosing
screen when the star destroyers enter attack range.  The cruiser will not
escape this time, Lord Vader.

Vader: I want that ship captured intact.  No unnecessary damage should be
inflicted.  Inform the fleet captains.

Commander: As you wish, Lord Vader. <motioning an aide to come forward>
Inform the fleet captains - the cruiser is not to be destroyed, it is to
be taken intact!

Vader: Now, proceed towards the base.  We shall make another example of
it...

<Back to the Enterprise.  Data has just taken his seat at the helm.>

Riker: Data, how long before those fighters reach us?

Data: Estimated intercept in 20 seconds, sir.

Riker: Worf, lock phasers, wide dispersal.  Prepare to fire at maximum
range and dispersion.

Worf: Aye sir.

Data: Sir, the alien base station has changed course.

Picard: What is the new heading, Mr.  Data?

Data: It is now on a direct course for Starbase 42, sir.

Picard: Damn.  Mr.  Worf, fire when ready.  Ensign, set intercept course
for the base station, full impulse.  Engage!

Worf: Firing phasers, sir!

<external view, the Enterprise accelerates toward the Imperial ships.
The wide-beam phaser fire disintegrates the TIE fighters in the
Enterprise's path.  The Star Destroyers begin their barrage as the
Enterprise approaches.  The blasters strike the Enterprise shields, but
there is little effect.>

Riker: Geordi, divert auxiliary power to the forward shields! Once we're
past them it'll be a while before they can bring their weapons to bear on
our rear.

LaForge: Aye sir, shields holding steady.

Picard: Mr.  Worf, can you target the base station's propulsion systems?

Worf: Negative, sir.  If they are using ion drive there is no detectable
emission from the base station.

Picard: Very well.  Lock photon torpedoes, closest surface point.

Worf: Aye sir.  Torpedoes ready.

Picard: Fire photon torpedoes.

Worf: Firing.

<The Enterprise is quickly approaching three Star Destroyers, but is
totally ignoring them.  The photon torpedoes are launched, speeding
towards the Death Star.  They impact with the surface and disintegrate
huge chunks of the station, leaving deep gouges in the surface.>

Data: Direct hits, but there is no appreciable decrease in the base's
power output levels.  Analysis indicates the surface is mostly armor,
with small weapon systems scattered across.

Picard: Armor only? Worf, continue firing.  Phasers and photon torpedoes,
narrow salvo.

Worf: Aye sir, firing phasers and photon torpedoes.

<The Enterprise is now past the Star Destroyers, and an intense phaser
beam is fired at the Death Star, boring a large hole into the surface.
This is followed by another stream of photon torpedoes, and more
explosions in those craters.>

Picard: Enemy status, Mr.  Data?

Data: 2% energy drop detected, sir.  Possibly a secondary reactor
powering the weapon systems in that area of the base.

Picard: This is ridiculous.  We could attack all day and still not make
any significant difference.

Riker: Suggest another torpedo salvo, sir.  We may be able to trigger a
chain reaction in their power systems.

Picard: Mr.  Data, when will they be in range of the Starbase weapon
batteries?

Data: At their current velocity, it will take 28 minutes, sir.

Riker: Captain, we could disable the rest of these vessels first and
still have time to deal with the base.

Picard: Yes, Number One, assuming they don't get lucky and cripple us
first.  Besides, those other vessels are inconsequential.  Only the base
station has enough firepower to present a threat. (sigh.) Mr.  Worf,
prepare another round of photon torpedoes.

Worf: Aye sir. (pause) Torpedoes ready, sir.

Data: Captain, sensors indicate additional fighter launches from the base
station.  Also, we're picking up more fighters from the Star Destroyers
behind us.

Picard: Acknowledged, Mr.  Data.  How long before they intercept?

Data: Given past performance, sir, I estimate a 97.4% probability that
they will begin their attack at approximately 400 megameters.  At their
current velocity that will be in 52 seconds, sir.

Riker: They should be well within phaser range already.

Picard: We need to concentrate our attention and our firepower on that
base station for the moment.  Data, how long can we sustain their attack?

Data: The aliens are using small particle beam weapons, which are easily
deflected by our shields.  With the shield upgrade, I estimate their
weapons effectiveness at .04 percent, Sir.

Picard: Fine, then we ignore those fighters for now.  That ought to have
a sufficiently demoralizing effect, maybe they'll realize the futility of
their continued assault.  Mr.  Worf, maintain torpedo lock on the base
station.

Worf: Aye sir, torpedoes locked on target.

Picard: Fire.

<View from behind the Enterprise.  The Death Star looms in front of the
ship, while squadrons of TIE fighters approach from the rear.  The view
rotates as the Enterprise fires its forward torpedoes.  The squadrons of
fighters leaving the Death Star are also in view, speeding towards the
Enterprise.  Three of the torpedoes hit TIE fighters, vaporizing them.
The fourth slams into the Death Star, forming a new crater.>

Worf: Sir, the enemy fighters are intercepting our photon torpedoes.

Picard: Intercepting .. ?

Riker: That's suicide! What are they up to?

Data: It does appear to be an effective means of shielding the main base
from our torpedoes, Sir.

Riker: Strangest idea of shields I ever saw.

Picard: Indeed.  Very well then, Mr.  Worf, lock phasers on the torpedo
impact crater.  Narrow beam.

Worf: Aye sir. (pause) Sir, the base station is locking on with a tractor
beam!

Riker: Use reverse tractor beams, try to break their lock!

Worf: Trying, sir. (pause) No effect.  Their beam is too powerful.

Picard: Commander, can you divert more power to the tractor beam
generators?

LaForge: They just went to the limit, Sir.  No one's ever expected to
need a larger generator on a starship.

<Exterior - the Enterprise is surrounded by the Death Star's pulsating
tractor beam.  The fleet of Star Destroyers is arrayed around the ship,
all are now quiescent.  The TIE fighters have veered away, breaking off
their attack.>

Commander: We have them now, Lord Vader.

Vader: Good.  Bring them to the main hangar bay.  Inform the fleet
captains to resume course for the base station.  We can study the ship
systems later.

Commander: Yes, Lord Vader.

<Pause, again.>




Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!bondi.jpl.nasa.gov!hyc
From: hyc@bondi.jpl.nasa.gov (Howard Chu)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: Re: FROM THE ARCHIVES: crossover/StarWars/TheReturn.zip (part 02/02)
Date: 2 Dec 1993 19:32:28 GMT
Organization: SAR Processing Systems
Lines: 219
Message-ID: <2dlfsc$kbk@elroy.jpl.nasa.gov>
References: <jfy.754835446@depot.cis.ksu.edu.cis.ksu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 128.149.77.149

Say, it's been a while since I was in this newsgroup... Just a note, in case
it wasn't obvious; this story began immediately after the episode "To the Nth
Degree." I guess it hasn't figured in much yet, but Barclay still has some
tricks up his sleeve... Here's one more brief installment that I wrote a couple
months ago, it ought to be included in the archive.
  -- Howard
	hyc@hanauma.jpl.nasa.gov

<View opens on Enterprise being drawn headfirst into the Death Star hangar
bay, still enveloped in the stupendous tractor beam. As the ship passes
out of view, cut to Death Star interior.>

Commander: Admiral - we have a slight problem.

Ozzel: Problem? What problem?

Commander: Sir, the hangar bay moorings will not accomodate this alien craft.
We cannot release the primary tractor beam until the ship is secured.

Ozzel: So reconfigure a berth for the ship. How long will it take?

Commander: Preparations have already begun, sir. We estimate at least an
hour until the new moorings can be secured. But in the meantime, sir, we
cannot provide full power to the main cannon, the primary reactors cannot
sustain the sudden heavy power drain while the tractor beam is operating.

Ozzel: We have insufficient power to attack? This is preposterous!

Commander: Our orders were to capture the ship intact, sir. We cannot release
the ship from the tractor beam without damaging it until the moorings are
ready, and suspending the ship requires a great deal of power.

Ozzel: Very well, return to your duties. I will advise Lord Vader of this
new development.

<Both men turn away, looking slightly pale... Cut to Enterprise bridge.>

Picard: Weapons status, Mr. Worf - have you found a way to neutralize the
tractor beam?

Worf: No sir. Phaser simulations are still negative and photon torpedoes can
not be launched.

Riker: What about extending our shields? That would give the torpedoes free
space to travel in, at least.

LaForge: Yes, but unless we shrink them down again just before impact, we'll
take an awful lot of feedback damage.

Worf: Sir - incoming message from the aliens.

Picard: Onscreen, Lieutenant.

<An Imperial officer with black helmet appears onscreen...>

Commander: Attention rebel scum. Your ship has been captured and is being
decontaminated prior to boarding. Make no effort at resistance or you will
be destroyed.

<Message ends.>

Riker: "Rebel scum?"

Troi: Captain, they're hiding something.

Picard: What do you mean? Hiding what?

Troi: They may intend to board this ship, but I believe they are powerless
to do so at the moment.

Picard: Why? Why are they powerless?

Troi: I don't know, I couldn't detect any more details, but I know they cannot
act immediately, or they would have done so already.

Picard: Very well. I want all personnel in outer areas of the ship evacuated to
more central locations. Mr. Worf, post security detachments along all outer
hull access routes. They've given us time to prepare, we might as well use it.
Staff meeting in ten minutes.

Worf: Aye sir. I will coordinate security teams here and join you when ready.

<Cut back to Death Star command bridge. Ozzel is conferring with Vader.>

Ozzel: Lord Vader, we cannot launch an attack against the enemy base without
full power to the cannon. The attack must be postponed!

Vader: I am tiring of your excuses, Admiral. However, an attack on the base
may not be necessary if we can learn enough from the captured ship. You may
order the fleet to withdraw. I want the commander of the alien ship brought
to me for questioning within the hour!

Ozzel: Yes, my lord!

<View in space - the Death Star and remaining star destroyers reverse course,
heading into the emptiness of the Neutral Zone. Moments later, the rippling
outline of a cloaked vessel passes by... Meanwhile, on the Enterpirse - cut
to the briefing room, all senior officers present.>

Worf: Security teams are in position, and containment force fields have all
checked out, sir.

Picard: Very good. What about the outer hull evacuation status?

Troi: The evacuation has proceeded smoothly, sir, although there were some
complaints that Ten-Forward had to be closed off.

Crusher: And I've stationed emergency medic teams throughout the ship, just
in case.

Picard: Thank you, Dr. Now, what can we do about this tractor beam?

LaForge: We may have discovered a weakness in the beam, sir.

Picard: Please continue, Geordi.

LaForge: Our sensors have detected a regular pattern in the pulsing energy
output of the beam. It's not a constant energy field, but runs on a harmonic
power cycle. We may be able to exploit the intervals when the field is at
its weakest.

Riker: Can you synchronize the phasers with these weak intervals?

LaForge: Maybe, but it wouldn't do any good. It's only weak for a couple
milliseconds, the phaser beam wouldn't be strong enough to do any damage on
such a small duty cycle.

Data: However, we may be able to modulate the transporter beam to function
through the field.

LaForge: We've done it before, although with this tiny an interval to work
with, total transit time will really get extended.

Riker: Extended how long?

Data: At full gain, it will take 7.82 times longer for full materialization.

LaForge: And even at full gain our effective power output is greatly reduced.
We won't have a lot of range.

Riker: We won't need a lot of range, we just need to get in, find the controls
to deactivate the beam, and get out.

Picard: Hold on, Number One. No one said anything about boarding the alien
base.

Riker: Sir, we're completely powerless unless we can deactivate that beam.
This may be the only way. Besides, we're already *in* the base, so we might
as well take a look around...

Picard: How long will it take to modify the transporters?

LaForge: Not long, it's a simple modification to the control circuits.

Picard: Make it so. Commander, you may assemble your away team. However,
I am assigning Mr. Worf and Mr. LaForge to remain on the ship.

Worf: But sir! -

Picard: Commander Riker's mission is one of espionage, Mr. Worf, not for
combat. However, with the threat of enemy boarding parties, there is a great
likelihood of combat on *this* ship. As Chief of Security you are needed here.

Worf: Yes sir.

Picard: Geordi, I need you in Engineering, to monitor our power systems and
make sure any intruders aren't able to damage critical systems and leave us
without backup.

LaForge: Aye sir.

Riker: Data, you're with me. We'll keep the party small and move fast.

Picard: If that is all, this meeting is adjourned. Good luck, Will.

Riker: Thank you sir. Let's go, Data.

<Riker & Data leave first, followed by the others. Fade out...>

<Fade in to transporter room. Picard, Riker, Data, & O'Brien present.
Riker and Data are handing over their rank insignia to O'Brien...>

Data: We have chosen a spot near a computer access terminal. Sensors detect no
life forms within a 20 meter radius of the location, so it should be a
relatively safe transport point.

Picard: Very good, Mr. Data. Be careful, Number One. We'll be out of
communicator contact, so you'll only have your emergency transponder to signal
trouble.

Riker: Understood, sir.

O'Brien: And if you need out and that tractor beam is still up, it's going to
be a very slow trip pulling you back, sir.

<Riker joins Data on transporter pads...>

Riker: If we don't take care of that tractor beam, there may not be anyone to
bring back. And maybe nowhere to go back to, for that matter.

Picard: We'll be here. And we'll be waiting for your return.

Riker: See you when we get back, Sir. Mr. O'Brien - energize!

O'Brien: Aye, sir. <activates transport controls.>

<Riker & Data slowly fade out in a pulsating shimmer of light... Cut to
Death Star interior, as Riker & Data rematerialize in front of the computer
console. As they begin surveying their surroundings, cut back to Enterprise
transporter room.>

O'Brien: Transport complete, sir, they've made it.

Picard: Keep a sharp lock on them, Mr. O'Brien. I want them back the instant
they signal.

O'Brien: Aye aye, sir. We'll get them back.

<Picard exits.>

