9511.15                 DATELINE: STARFLEET                       #65


                         From the Big Chair
                         ------------------
     A little late but hopefully worth it!
     This issue was held up while I waited for some important tidings
regarding Major Kira that I felt deserved to be aired as soon as I
possibly could.  That's the editorial for this month, so feel free to
check it out.  And enjoy the rest of this issue!
     --Bill


             News from Over the Hailing Frequencies....
             ------------------------------------------
IN PASSING
     Darleen Roddenberry-Bacha, daughter of Gene and Majel, died on
October 29th from head injuries sustained in an accident.  She was
48.  She is survived by her husband and their two children.  In lieu
of flowers, the family asked that donations be made to the
Interstitial Cystitis Association.  (Reuters/Variety)
     The foundation's address is: Interstitial Cystitis Association,
P.O. Box 1553, Madison Square Station, New York NY  10159-1553. 
(rec.arts.startrek.info)
     Our heartfelt condolences to all the family members at their
loss.

CORRECTION
     Last month's report here that Patrick would be in the film
"Richard III" turns out to be incorrect.  Patrick dropped the role
when the film went thru some delays in order to do this past summer's
performances of "The Tempest."  (Darn that New York Times anyway.... 
Thanks to Kathleen for the correction!)
     But on the other hand, once the run of "The Tempest" is over, he
*is* scheduled to film the movie "Safe House," in which he'll star as
a reclusive ex-spy.  (Variety)

Q AND RIKER TOGETHER AGAIN
     (From the press release)
     Jonathan Frakes is the First `Star Trek:  The Next Generation'
Series Regular to Guest Star on `Star Trek:  Voyager'
     HOLLYWOOD, Oct. 20 /PRNewswire/ --  "STAR TREK:  VOYAGER," the
hit series from Paramount Network Television, will bring two of the
most popular "Star Trek" characters -- the omnipotent Q and the
commanding Will Riker, back to the small screen.  The episode
entitled "Death Wish," which films this week, guest stars John de
Lancie as Q, one of the most enjoyable recurring characters from
"Star Trek:  The Next Generation."  Additionally, Jonathan Frakes
will reprise his role as Commander Will Riker, marking the first time
a "Star Trek:  The Next Generation" series regular has guest starred
on "Star Trek:  Voyager."  This is the first time that de Lancie and
Frakes have appeared together since the season finale of "Star Trek: 
The Next Generation."
     In "Death Wish," Captain Janeway (Kate Mulgrew) must decide
whether to grant asylum to a dissident member of the Q continuum, who
says he intends to commit suicide because he cannot tolerate
immortality any longer.  When the original Q (John de Lancie) shows
up to take him back into custody, Captain Janeway presides over a
trial to determine whether or not the renegade Q will return to life
imprisonment or become mortal.  Commander Will Riker (Jonathan
Frakes) testifies as to the sanity of the Q on trial.
     John de Lancie, known for his portrayal as Q on "Star Trek:  The
Next Generation" and "Star Trek:  Deep Space Nine," was most recently
seen as Dr. Tesla in the UPN series "Legend" with Richard Dean
Anderson.  In addition to acting, de Lancie directs and teaches
acting, and he holds the position of Associate Director at L.A.
Theatre Works.
     Since production ended on "Star Trek:  The Next Generation,"
Jonathan Frakes co-starred in the hit Paramount feature film "Star
Trek: Generations" and has guest starred in several television series
including "Lois and Clark," "Cybill" and Paramount's "Wings."  Frakes
has also directed several episodes of "Star Trek:  Voyager" and "Star
Trek: Deep Space Nine."

CURRENT DS9/VOY SCHEDULES
     All days represent "the week of".  Check your local listings for
exact time and date.  Numbers after the title are Paramount's
production numbers.  An "R" after the episode number represents a
repeat airing.  Schedules are of course subject to change at any
given moment.

STAR TREK: DEEP SPACE NINE

11/12/95: Starship Down (479; the Defiant comes under Jem'Hadar
attack)
11/19/95: The Sword of Kahless (481; Kor, Worf, and Dax search out
Kahless' sword)
11/26/95: Our Man Bashir (482; Julian and company are trapped in a
malfunctioning 1960s spy holosuite program)
12/3/95: Explorers (468R)
12/10/95: Family Business (469R)
12/17/95: Shakaar (470R)
12/24/95: Facets (471R)

STAR TREK: VOYAGER
(NOTE: these are Sunday *Week Of* dates.  Most areas will see
episodes the next day, Monday.)

11/12/95: Cold Fire (Voyager meets the other Caretaker)
11/19/95: Maneuvers (the return of Seska)
11/26/95: Resistance (Janeway must rely on the eccentric alien Caylem
who believes Janeway is his daughter to rescue captured Voyager
crewmates; Caylem played by Joel Grey)
12/3/95: The 37s (120R)
12/10/95: Initiations (121R)

RATINGS NUMBERS

For Deep Space Nine (dates are "the week ending"):
     October 1: 11th place with a 5.4 rating ("The Adversary" rerun)
     October 15: 3rd with a 8.5 ("Way of the Warrior")
     October 22: tied for 5th with a 6.9
     October 29: 3th with a 7.7
     "Way of the Warrior" did very well, posting DS9's best ratings
since the first airing of "Defiant".  It was #1 in five markets, and
#2 in thirteen others.  (PRNewswire)
     (There is some confusion over the current ratings, as the news
media reported the ratings for "Way of the Warrior" as for the week
ending October 15 when the episode actually ran the week before.  So
the ratings for the 22nd and 29th are presented with no episode
attached rather than try and guess what the heck episode they're
talking about.)

For Voyager:
     October 15: 75th place with a 5.9 rating/9 share ("Parturition")
     October 29: 82nd with a 4.9/8 ("State of Flux" rerun)
     November 5: tied for 84th with a 6.1/9 ("Persistence of Vision")
     November 12: tied for 83rd with a 5.8/8 ("Tattoo")

UPN BUSINESS
     The network ordered additional episodes of "Nowhere Man" and
"Live Shot" for this season.  (Voyager, of course, already has a full
season's order.)  No decision was made on whether to order more
episodes of "Deadly Games" as well.
     Also, UPN queued up two more new dramas for 13 episodes: "Swift
Justice" (about a cop turned vigilante) and "The Sentinel" (another
cop, this one with "strange, unexplained powers").  UPN plans to
debut these shows on Wednesdays in March.  (Variety)

CCG FOLLOWUP
     Skybox issued a response to the various allegations by TNG CCG
manufacturer Decipher that were reported on here last month.  Skybox
noted that Decipher's license was based on a "carve out" of Skybox's
Star Trek trading card license in the first place, and that there was
no such thing as an "informal understanding" that Decipher would
receive future licenses to non-TNG CCG products.  Skybox also
officially confirmed that they had a license to produce a TOS CCG
game, which would be on the market in 1996.  (Thanks to George White
for the press release copy.)

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
     Speaking at a Hawaii convention, Marina Sirtis noted that one
cut line from "Way of the Warrior" had O'Brien expressing his regrets
to Worf that his relationship with Deanna didn't work out.  (Thanks
to Miles Matsumura for the info.)
     It was announced that Whoopi Goldberg will host the next Oscar
awards.
     Kirstie Alley received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
     Avery Brooks will be onstage at the Longacre Theatre in New York
City doing "Paul Robeson: A Play With Music" between December 18 and
31.  (rec.arts.startrek.current)
     On October 28, Nana Visitor received the Best Supporting Actress
in a Genre Television Series honor from the the Sci-Fi Universe
Readers' Choice Universe awards.  (As posted on AOL by MonroeLDM.)
     Interviewed in "The BluePrinter," Mike Okuda noted that some of
the many Klingon ships in "Way of the Warrior" were assembled ERTL
model kits.  (rec.arts.startrek.info)
     John de Lancie has been at the Comdex computer trade show in Las
Vegas on behalf of the software company Quarterdeck (for obvious
first initial in common reasons).  ;)  (Knight-Ridder/Tribune
Business News)
     George Takei was appointed last month to President Clinton's
U.S.-Japan Friendship Commission.  (San Jose Mercury News)


                        Editorial: Major Kira
                            by Bill Mason
                        ---------------------
     Major Kira, wherefore art thou?
     Actually, that's a little too dramatic, but I couldn't resist it
for an opening.  ;)  Major Kira is alive and well of course and
having another good season (she was *marvelous* tonite in "Starship
Down").
     But then, there's the thing.  The Viacom thing.
     Apparently, in the offseason Viacom decided in their quest to
bring more viewers to DS9 that the show needed a sex symbol and that
Kira was elected.  So you may have noticed some changes in the
character, especially those annoying heeled boots that no good
freedom fighter would be caught in.  It comes at the behest of Viacom
over the producers' objections.
     To Viacom, I only say that Kira was *already* a sex symbol, and
you shouldn't mess with what you don't understand.
     A campaign has started to protest this nuttiness on Viacom's
part.  I give over space now to their appeal.  I agree with them
wholeheartedly; if you do to, take time to write.  |)
==============
FROM FREEDOM-FIGHTER TO FEMME-FATALE... A WARRIOR IN THREE-INCH
HEELS???

Do the changes this season in Major Kira's appearance bother you?

You should know that these changes were initiated at the behest of
Viacom, the Paramount parent company, in an attempt to attract the
"Baywatch" audience.

You are an intelligent, loyal Star Trek fan.  What can you do?

Write.

Send a letter to Viacom.
     F.J. Biondi, Jr.
     President & CEO
     Viacom, Inc.
     200 Elm Street
     Dedham, MA  02026

And send a letter to Paramount.  If you care about seeing strong
female characters, let them know and also let them know that you are
not happy with the costume changes.  (These changes were made OVER
the objections of both the DS9 producers and Nana Visitor.)
     Deep Space Nine Production Office
     Attn:  Ira Steven Behr
     Cooper Bldg., Rm. 200
     Paramount Pictures, Inc.
     5555 Melrose Ave.
     Los Angeles, CA  90038

Following is a sample letter to use or not.  (Please do not copy it
verbatim... use your own words.  And don't forget to use a dictionary
or spell check.)  Your letter should be on a single page of white
paper, typed or neatly handwritten in black ink.  You should mail it
in a #10  (long, business size) white envelope.  Include your return
address.  DO NOT put "Star Trek," the name of the show, the name of
the character(s), stickers or insignia of any kind on the envelope. 
(You'll be dismissed as a wacko and your letter tossed if you do.)

A letter-writing campaign saved Star Trek from cancellation in 1967. 
The adventure continues.  The changes to Major Kira's appearance are
sexist, and negate all the positive female images this character has
embodied for the past three years.  Kira was all-woman WITHOUT the
"feminine" trappings.  The fans thought so.  Nana Visitor thought so.
 The DS9 producers thought so.  Viacom is the problem.

Write.

This fundamental change to Major Kira sets a precedent.  The Viacom
suits do NOT know what they have with Star Trek and they should leave
character decisions to those who do.

This campaign is sponsored by ENVY (the Nana Visitor fan club).  For
more information contact ENVY, c/o Kimberley Junius, P.O. Box 1926,
Upland, CA 91785-1926.  E-mail BajorFemme@aol.com.

***Sample letter follows***

Date


Executive Name
Address

Dear Mr. Executive:

     I am writing to express my objection to the changes in the
character of Major Kira Nerys on [Paramount's syndicated series] Star
Trek: Deep Space Nine.  For three years, Major Kira has been a symbol
of strength and hope for the viewers of that show.  This year,
however, I'm dismayed to find that changes have been made to her
physical appearance which undermine the very nature of the character.
     There appears to be some concern that the Major, with her
no-nonsense style and short hair, presents an image of womanhood that
many find unfeminine and perhaps offensive.  The truth of the matter
is this character, an ex-Freedom Fighter who survived a demoralizing
occupation of her homeworld, is a strong woman who is revered and
admired by the other characters and fans for these very reasons --
she is tough, she doesn't pull any punches, and she does not suffer
fools.  Imagine my dismay, then, to see her this season.  Gone are
the functional boots, replaced with heels no other character,
ultra-feminine or not, is forced to wear.  Gone is the simple
hairstyle that augmented her character. Instead we now see a parody
of the Major Kira we have come to know and love.  She has ceased to
be a symbol of strength and hope -- no longer revered, and admired
only for the way she fills out her new, skin-tight jumpsuit.
     Therefore, I am asking you to reconsider the changes you have
made to the appearance of Major Kira Nerys and to restore her
footwear, hair style, and uniform to the earlier version that is more
in keeping with the character's development.  Part of the reason I
watch this show each week, as I have for the past three years, is
because of the continuity of the characters.  I would like to
continue to watch this show for the next three years.  Major Kira is
a vital part of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, and to erode the
integrity of her character does a disservice to the actress, the
character and those of us who are inspired by and support the show
each week.
     I thank you for your time. 

Sincerely,



                    Give DS9 and Voyager a Chance
                 by Jeff Rhind (Loskene@loskene.com)
                 -----------------------------------
     In my travels through AOL in "Star Trek: The Club" Forum as well
as rec.arts.startrek.whatever on the Internet, I discover how many
"Trek-heads" bash both DS9 and Voyager; opting to remain purists to
the voyages of the U.S.S. Enterprise.  People complain about "lame"
or "dumb" episodes because it's not about Kirk or Picard.  If I'm not
mistaken there's more than one starship in Starfleet and there are
more Starfleet officers than those who serve aboard that prestigious
vessel.  If I had based the entire series of Star Trek: The Next
Generation on the first twelve or so episodes, I would not have
become the TNG fan that I am now.
     Just because two, three, or perhaps four or more, episodes of a
particular season were somewhat lacking when compared to others, does
not necessarily make that series a "stinker."  As a videotape editor
of a documentary series for PBS, I can attest to that.  The series
I'm working on has its share of less than inspiring episodes but that
doesn't mean the series should be canceled, besides that would put me
out of a job.  :)  In the feverishly, hectic pace of television
production, deadlines are an absolute. For the most part, deadlines
cannot be moved, they are written in stone.  To produce twenty-six
episodes through the course of less than a year is a monumental feat.
 Story concepts, scripting, shooting, off-line editing, special
effects design, creation and layering, on-line editing, mix to pix
(adding music, voice-overs, effects) and the final packaging is a
long, difficult and tiring process.  The formula for TV production
goes something like this:
     Every one minute of finished video is equal to approximately 3
hours of man power, production resources, and time.  This is a very
conservative estimate.  This IS a lot of work.  Some things are bound
to fall through the cracks perhaps even the story itself.
     During the production process of a television series, a
particular show's script might look great on paper but when brought
to the screen it just doesn't quite come together the way you had
hoped.  (Remember "Generations?")  I can't tell you how many times
I've seen this in my experience, but what is one to do?  Abandon the
show after all the work has been completed?  Not bounce the show off
"the bird" to all of the affiliated stations?  I think not.  Keep in
mind that several shows are being produced at the same time, all in
different phases of production.  Deadlines must be met and I'm sure
that the powers that be have watched a completed program and said,
"It's O.K.," as opposed to, "That was great!"  It happens. 
Nevertheless the producers must swallow their pride, "grin and bear
it," and say, "It's done. Get it outta here!"
     Deep Space Nine and Voyager have their share of so-so episodes
but then again so does TNG and TOS.  Let's be realistic.  Voyager has
just started its second season and I was very pleased with what I saw
of the first.  Sure there's some characters that still need work,
however when working with an ensemble cast it's difficult and
incorrect to tell everyone's story right away.  This would just lead
to overload and would not pique anyone's interest in returning to
learn more about the characters.  When I first watched Voyager, I got
the impression that the Doctor was going to be an uninteresting
character.  Boy, was I wrong!  Robert Picardo's abilities (and the
writers) have brought forth a projected image from a hologrid and
gave him an enormous amount of substance.  More than say, certain
first year characters on TNG.  I believe that Voyager is progressing
nicely and quite steadily, and I can't wait to see what's in store
next for Captain Janeway and her crew.
     Deep Space Nine on the hand is another matter.  It was designed
from the beginning to be a different show all together from the
proven formula of Star Trek.  It has certainly accomplished this
through storylines that rely less on action and more on characters
and psychological factors.  Isn't this what makes a movie or
television show good - interesting characters?  Without characters
you don't have anything.  Paramount has another great ensemble cast
with DS9.  We've seen these actors grow with their roles and project
great realism and believability into their characters.  What of Worf
on Deep Space Nine?  I'm not sure what to make of this yet.  Perhaps
it will serve to connect "Generations" to DS9 or perhaps fill-in the
gap between "Generations" and the next TNG film and maybe, just
maybe, might provide a spring board for the next film.
     I'm sure that there are those of you out there who certainly
don't like DS9 or Voyager.  That's O.K.  No one is making you watch
it or making you like it.  That is your prerogative.  And I'm sure
there are those who hate TOS - you know who you are - and that's O.K.
too.  Perhaps I look at the show from a different perspective than
most.  I can admire the Trek phenomenon for its production values,
interesting stories (although not all of them), and wonderful
characters.  Sometimes, I can even just sit back, take off my "TV
hat" and enjoy good television (before my girlfriend walks in,
catches me watching Star Trek, and rolls her eyes).
     [Jeff has been a Star Trek fan for over 20 years and is the
on-line editor of the PBS series: The Visionaries.  He is also
maintains Loskene's Tholian Web @ http://www.loskene.com (E-mail to:
Loskene@loskene.com)]


                            Pocket Books
                            ------------
     I think everyone stopped reading books this month, and that's
dangerous!  ;)  I heard hardly a peep about anything from you all. 
What's new to read?  Did you buy a good book for Christmas shopping
and decide to keep it for yourself?  ;)  Let us know!


                           Happy Birthday!
                           ---------------
     November 19: Terry Farrell
     November 21: Alexander Siddig
     November 24: Denise Crosby
     December 3: Brian Bonsall (Alexander)
     December 9: Michael Dorn


                  Trek-related Products/Happenings
                  --------------------------------
     Spotted in software catalogues: "Science Fiction: The Gold
Collection Vols. 1 and 2", and hosted by Leonard Nimoy.  (Thanks to
PhotoManIN for the tip!)

     In comic books:
     "Star Trek" #79 (DC): "The Chosen" part 2 of 3.  Did the
Romulans destroy Starbase 7?
     "Next Generation" #79 (DC): Q reappears during an Enterprise
memorial service.  Written by Michael Jan Friedman.
     "Next Generation: Ill Wind" #3 (DC): Part 3 of 4 co-written by
Diane Duane.  The Enterprise must deal with bombs aboard ships and
missing planetary dignitaries.
     "Deep Space Nine" #30 (Malibu): Sisko negotiates for Thomas
Riker's release from Cardassian prison.  This issue also includes the
conclusion of a Mirror Universe story co-plotted by Tim Russ: Bashir
and Tuvok try to escape the Alliance.
     "Gene Roddenberry's Xander in Lost Universe" #4 (TeknoComix):
the Deliverance seeks to escape Lady Sensua.
     "Leonard Nimoy's Primortals: Origins" #1 (TeknoComix): Primaster
reveals the origins of the Primortals.

     A variety of new items from the Hamilton Collection (does anyone
else get as much mail from this place as I seem to?): the Star Trek
Generations first day cover commemorative stamp, the Shatner/Picard
autographed Generations wall plaque, the TNG leather jacket, and
still more collectors' plates (now they're in DS9 territory).


                    Personal Logs, Stardate Today
                    -----------------------------
     Who is William Shatner?
     [The correct question for the answer on Celebrity Jeopardy! in
November that of all the people in the tournament, wound up in LeVar
Burton's lap!]


                    Credits where Credits are Due
                    -----------------------------
     "Dateline: Starfleet" -- edited by Bill Mason.  Comments and
submissions are invited via any of these avenues: America Online
(E-Mail to Data1701D), Internet (send to 'data1701d@aol.com'), or the
US Postal Service (753 Rively Ave, Glenolden PA, 19036-1118).
     "Dateline: Starfleet" originates from the America Online "Star
Trek: The Club" forum.
     The Away Team of Contributors: Kimberley Junius, Jeff Rhind
****PLEASE NOTE****
     If you would like your name removed from the "Dateline:
Starfleet" Mailing List, please REPLY to this E-Mail, type "STOP!"
and SEND it to this E-Mail address: "datelined@aol.com".
     Please note that the mailing list distributes EXCLUSIVELY via
E-mail.  There is NO mailing to US Mail addresses.
     If you know of people who are interested in being added to the
"Dateline: Starfleet" Mailing List, please have them E-mail
"datelined@aol.com" requesting they receive it.  America Online users
interested in joining the Mailing List can just E-Mail "datelined".
     ONLY requests to be ADDED to the mailing list or DELETED from it
should be sent to "datelined".  For ANY other E-Mails (including
address changes), please send it to "data1701d".
*******************
     Copyright and Trademark Notice: In no case is use of any
copyrighted material and/or trademarks without identifying symbols
intended as a claim of ownership to those copyrights and/or
trademarks.  "Dateline: Starfleet" is a non-profit production
reporting and commenting on the universe of Star Trek.
     STAR TREK is a Registered Trademark of Paramount Pictures.  All
other copyrighted material, trademarks, and/or service marks cited
herein are registered to their respective owners.
     Readers are granted permission to reproduce this file wherever
they think there's an interest.  I make no copyright claims on this
file and encourage public distribution, as long as you identify the
original source.
     If you read all this, wouldn't it be good to see a USS Rabin in
the Trek future?
     Dateline #66 will be out December 15th.