===============================================================================
       Broderbund's LICENCE TO KILL -- 'BUSTED' 10/12/1989 by THE FiRM
===============================================================================

  LICENCE TO KILL is a neat little multi-level arcade challenge based on the
recent James Bond movie of the same name...  While there's no midi-support,
the game does come in versions for CGA/HERCULES, TANDY, and EGA video adapters
with decent graphics for each...

  To bypass the key-diskette copy-protection scheme, simply copy the files for
the graphics mode you wish to use to a disk along with the FiRM support files
"BOND.COM" and "FiRM.SCR"...  (Note: Any/all of the various graphics modes may
co-exist in the same directory, if desired, as they each have unique names.
The FiRM support files "BOND.COM" and "FiRM.SCR" are exactly the same for all
three graphics versions, so you only need a single copy of these files.)

  To play, use the following startup commands:

                          CGA & HERCULES  =  BOND
                          TANDY           =  BOND T
                          EGA             =  BOND E

  These commands only differ from the original startup options only by the
addition of the required 'space' between the name and the graphics mode
indication character.  To quit and return-to-dos at any time, use either the
game's original method of pressing <CTRL><ALT><DEL>, or our added <CTRL><Q>
option...

  And now for the docs...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Become James Bond in his latest adventure and destroy the evil drug smuggler
Sanchez.  Guide 007 as he fights it out on Cray Cay, over Miami bay and
underwater on his way to the final confrontation in 18-wheel oil tankers.
Defeat Sanchez and give Bond what he wants most - REVENGE.

On every level, you'll have a control panel on the right hand side of the
screen. You'll always be shown the number of lives you have left, and you'll
also see important information about the level you're playing - number of
bullets, amount of oxygen, time remaining, etc.  At certain times, a reticle
will appear telling you to jump, shoot, etc. - press "fire" to do this.

Once you have mastered each scene, improve your score by going round again -
but this time it will be much harder.


SCENE 1 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Bond and his partner, Felix Leiter, swoop low in their helicopter over Cray Cay
to prevent Sanchez from escaping in his jeep.  Avoid the obstacles (of varying
height) and shoot out the gun emplacements as you gun down the jeep.  Remember,
the faster you fly, the lower you go!  The control panel shows how much your
helicopter is damaged and how high you're flying.

  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Move forward (and down)       Push forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Move back (and up)            Pull back                     A/Down arrow
  Push left                     Move left                     O/Left arrow
  Push right                    Move right                    P/Right arrow
  Press button                  Shoot & Jump                  Space Bar


SCENE 2 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Bond leaps into action and sets off on foot to catch Sanchez.  Watch out - many
of Sanchez' henchmen have been deployed to ambush you.  Your wits and your
15-shot Beretta can make the difference!  Duck and shoot your way through while
collecting extra magazines from the gunmen you take out.  Watch out for the oil
barrels as they explode after four direct hits. The control panel shows how
many hits you've taken (five hits is worth a life) and how many magazines/
bullets you have.

  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Push forward                  Move forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Pull back                     Move back                     A/Down arrow
  Push left                     Move left                     O/Left arrow
  Push right                    Move right                    P/Right arrow
  Aim                           Press button & push           Space & O or P
                                 left or right
  Shoot                         Release button                Release Space Bar


SCENE 3 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Bond is lowered by rope from the helicopter as Sanchez attempts to escape to
Cuba in his aircraft.  Guide 007 onto the back of the dodging plane and attach
the tow rope.  Remember, Bond can't jump to the plane if you are in clouds!
Position Bond directly over the tail of the plane and press the fire button to
"lock-on" - it's not as easy as it sounds, and time is running out!  The
control panel shows how much time you have before Sanchez leaves U. S.
territory.

  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Push forward                  Move forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Pull back                     Move back                     A/Down arrow
  Push left                     Move left                     O/Left arrow
  Push right                    Move right                    P/Right arrow
  Jump                          Press button                  Space Bar


SCENE 4 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
007 dives into the thick of it as he interrupts a "drop" by the drug smugglers.
They set off in hot pursuit and Bond must swim for his life as divers are
launched against him.  Swim underwater to stop the boats from firing.  Kill
enemy divers (and get their harpoons) by pressing the space bar/joystick button
when you run into them.  Destroy the drug caches for a bonus. When the seaplane
appears, line up with one of the pontoons and hit it with a harpoon to move to
the next level. The control panel shows your oxygen level - you can stay under
water only until your oxygen runs out.

  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Move forward (& underwater)   Push forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Move back                     Pull back                     A/Down arrow
  Move left                     Push left                     O/Left arrow
  Move right                    Push right                    P/Right arrow
  Kill divers (take harpoon)/
   destroy drugs/shoot harpoon  Press button                  Space Bar


SCENE 5 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
You're off in a high speed chase as you waterski barefoot behind the seaplane.
Watch out for the rocks and floating objects that can send you for a spill!
Weave your way to the seaplane to gain control and escape!

  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Move forward                  Push forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Move back                     Pull back                     A/Down arrow
  Move left                     Push left                     O/Left arrow
  Move right                    Push right                    P/Right arrow


SCENE 6 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
You have destroyed Sanchez' drug factory only to find he has escaped you once
again.  You must prevent Sanchez reaching the border with his drugs haul stored
in 18-wheeler tankers.  Position your stolen crop-duster above the truck until
you see the square target; press "fire"/space bar to jump into the truck.  Use
this truck to destroy each and every tanker in turn until you reach the final
tanker containing Sanchez.  The control panel shows where your truck has been
damaged.


  CONTROLS                      JOYSTICK                      KEYBOARD
  Move forward                  Push forward                  Q/Up arrow
  Move back                     Pull back                     A/Down arrow
  Move left                     Push left                     O/Left arrow
  Move right                    Push right                    P/Right arrow
  Jump                          Press button                  Space Bar
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Enjoy!!!


                 ********************************************
                 *  FiRM greetings to crackers everywhere!  *
                 ********************************************


                           ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
                           ³ The Software Surgeon ³
                           ÀÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÙ
                              -=ð³ THE FiRM ³ð=-
                                 ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ
                        

