



                            /////////////////  /////////////
                           /////////////////  /////////////
                               ///// /////   /////
                              ///// /////////////  /////
                             ///// /////////////  /////
                            ///// /////  /////////////
                           ///// /////  /////////////
                          The Humble Guy's HumbleDox

                                   Presents

       Cruise for a Corpse : Reference Manual for the Cimematique System


CRUISE FOR A CORPSE REFERENCE MANUAL FOR THE CINEMATIQUE SYSTEM

We recommend that you make safety copies of your original disks and 
use these when you are

NOTE Before you start playing, it is advisable to make sure that you 
have a blank formatted disk at hand so that you can save games part 
way through.

CONTROLLING THE HERO

A. MOVING

To move Raoul within a room, point the mouse cursor at the required 
destination and press the LEFT mouse button. Raoul will then move to 
that location, avoiding any obstacle in his way.

To go to a different room, place the cursor over the door or the 
exit displayed on the screen and press the LEFT mouse button.

MANIPULATING YOUR ENVIRONMENT

Each room contains a large number of objects, any of which could be 
clues, vital to the progress of your investigation, To find out 
about the actions you can use on an object, place the mouse cursor 
over it and press the LEFT mouse button.

A list of verbs relating to the selected object will be displayed. 
Place the mouse cursor over the relevant action verb (the 
highlighted verb will then change colour) and press the LEFT button. 
Raoul will then carry out the order you have given him.

If you choose not to use any of the proposed actions, move the 
cursor within the menu (all the verbs will then be the same colour 
meaning that none has been selected), then press the LEFT button to 
exit the list.

It is important to know that only actions which can be executed on 
the object immediately are displayed on the list.

EXAMPLE: Raoul is in a room containing a chest of drawers. Let's 
suppose you wish to examine the contents of one of the drawers and 
that the drawer is closed. Move the mouse cursor over the drawer and 
press the LEFT mouse button. A single verb will appear on the list: 
OPEN ... Nothing yet will allow you to search the inside of the 
drawer.

Select the verb OPEN ordering Raoul to open the drawer.

Then, press again on the drawer and the following verbs will be 
displayed:

CLOSE
Now, all you have to do Is select the verb SEARCH on the list and 
reap the fruit of your efforts.

C. USING FOUND OBJECTS

Some actions are likely to be possible only when the object Is In 
your possession ... For example, you will need to take a letter 
before you can read It, a jacket before you can wear It etc...

To display the Inventory of objects carried by Raoul, simply press 
the RIGHT mouse button.

If you want to affect one of the objects displayed In the inventory, 
move the mouse cursor over the name of the object (it will then 
change colour) and press the LEFT mouse button.

The list of actions associated with that object will be displayed 
Instead of the inventory. Point the mouse cursor to a verb (which 
will then change colour) and press the LEFT mouse button.

Remember, only actions possible Immediately will be displayed on the 
list.

EXAMPLE: Raoul has just picked up a small ball of paper and you want 
to READ what it says... Press the RIGHT mouse button and display the 
list of objects carried by Raoul Then point the mouse cursor to 
"piece of paper" and press the LEFT button to call the following list 
EXAMINE THROW SHOW SMOOTH OUT Select the verb SMOOTH OUT on the 
list. Raoul will then smooth out the piece of paper. Now recall the 
Inventory and select the "piece of paper" ... The list of verbs 
associated with It Is now as follows: EXAMINE THROW SHOW READ All 
you need to do Is move the mouse cursor over the verb READ and press 
the LEFT mouse button.

D. ESTABLISHING LINKS BETWEEN OBJECTS

It Is very likely that the objects you will find at various 
locations have not been placed there by chance and the odds are that 
at some stage In your quest, you will have to make the most of your 
opportunities. Use your powers of deduction, flair and Intuition to 
try and guess the link between particular obiects. Although these 
relationships are, on the whole, easy to establish (a key goes into 
a lock to unlock a door, a pickaxe digs an opening Into a rock), 
sometimes It will take more time. Don't lose heart Immediately 
because there Is ALWAYS a solution.

When you think you have guessed the link between two objects, try It 
out to check your deduction.

Here are some examples which illustrate the way to establish a 
relationship between one object and another...

A: You have a key ... In front of you, a locked door just asking to 
be opened.

- Press the RIGHT button to call the Inventory.

- Choose the ~key" from the Inventory.

- In the new list of verbs, select the verb "Put In" ... A control 
phrase will be displayed "key: put In..." to remind you that you 
must now select the object In which you wish to put the key...

- Move the cursor over the lock and press the LEFT mouse button... 
Raoul will execute the action.

B: You still have the key and you have Just found a small box. The 
key and the box are both In the Inventory and you will try to open 
the box with the key

- Press the RIGHT button to call the Inventory.

- Select the '-key" from the Inventory.

- Select ~Open..." on the list of verbs relating to the key

- Press the RIGHT button again to recall the Inventory.

- Now, move the mouse cursor over the word "box" and validate with 
the LEFT button to execute the opening of the box with the key...

C: A pile of records on a table and, nearby, a record player. You 
want to listen to a record...

- Move the cursor over the pile of records and press the LEFT mouse 
button.

- The list of verbs associated with the pile of records Is now 
displayed. Choose "Put on ...". The following control phrase Is 
displayed "record: put on..."reminding you that you need to decide 
where Raoul must put the record.

- Move the cursor over the record player and press the LEFT button 
to validate the action of ~putting the record on the record player" 
and listen away.

E. DIALOGUE

An Investigation conducted according to the rules must begin by a 
close Interrogatlon of the suspects.

When a character Is In the room, move the mouse cursor over him/her 
and press the LEFT button to display the list of actions. Select the 
verb "speak" to start the conversation...

A list of topics of conversation classified by heading will be 
displayed. Each heading includes all the topics of conversation 
relating to a character (except the heading ù-objects found'~ which 
allows you to question the suspects on the objects you discovered 
during your investigation). EXAMPLE

You want to question Father Fabiani about Julio's taste for computer 
games...

When you go into dialogue mode, the following menu will be displayed:

FABIANI
SUZANNE
JULIO
HECTOR
OBJECTS FOUND
THANKS FOR YOUR HELP

Place the mouse cursor on ~Julio" and press the LEFT button. A 
sub-menu with all the topics of conversation having a link with 
Julio will be displayed:

HIS PASSION FOR GAMES
HIS LOVE OF PLANTS
HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH SUZANNE
OTHER TOPICS...

Move the mouse cursor over "his passion for games" and press the 
LEFT button to receive Father Fabiani's answer.

According to the answer, one or more new topics will be added to the 
list. Some minor topics will merely pad out the conversation and 
allow you to obtain more detail on a particular theme. These 
temporary topics are easily recognizable as they are displayed dark 
In the menu.

EXAMPLE

Let's suppose that the priest's answer to the previous question Is: 
"Julio has a passion for adventure games, especially DELPHlNE's..." 
There would be two new temporary themes In the menu ~Adventure 
Games" and ~Delphinen... These themes may bring up others.

In some Instances, the new topic Is vital to the progress of your 
investigation. It will then be displayed permanently on the list (In 
white) and you will be able to question someone else on the same 
topic.

To exit the conversation, choose the heading "thank you for your 
help" on the list.

When you are In a heading sub-menu, select ~other topics" to go back 
to the main headings menu.

THE USER MENU

This menu offers functions which are not part of the actual game but 
which will allow you, for example, to save or reload a game...

You access this menu by pressing both mouse buttons simultaneously. 
RESTART: to restart a game from the beginning.

SAVE DRIVE: to tell the program on which disk you wish to save.

SAVE GAME: to save the current game onto a disk. At the prompt, 
Insert the save disk.

A directory of games already on the disk will be displayed.

Choose a slot and validate.

If there Is no slot available In the directory, use a new save disk 
or save over an existing game.

LOAD GAME: to continue a previously saved game. At the prompt, 
Insert the save disk.

The list of saved games on the save disk will be displayed.

Move the mouse over the name of the game to be loaded and validate.

NOTE: You can save a game as long as your hero Is alive. We 
recommend that you use this option regularly and everytime the 
situation Is dangerous. During some animation sequences, where you 
do not have to guide your character, you will not be able to save 
the game. Don't worry, nothing very dangerous can happen to you 
during these sequences or It's too late to take actlon!

HINTS AND TIPS FOR BEGINNERS

If this Is the first time you have played an adventure game, here 
are some tips:

Examine all the objects In your location.

Read carefully all the comments displayed as they may hold important 
clues for the rest of your adventure.

Pick up as many objects as possible.

Consider the various possible uses of the objects you have.

Activate everything you can.

Talk to as many people as possible, they may put you onto a lead.

Save as soon as you feel some danger.

However, if you are stuck at some stage of the game, try and check 
whether you have forgotten an object or whether you have failed to 
do something earlier.

Every problem has a solution - ALWAYS.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

ATARI 520, 1040 ST, MEGA ST, AND STE

- Switch on computer.

- Insert game disk No.l In drive A.

- Double click on the Icon DELPHINE.PRG.

- The game will load and run automatically.

Hard Disk Installation

- Check that the number of bytes available on the hard disk Is 
larger than that used by the game.

- Create a new directory and copy the contents of each disk Into it.

Loading from the Hard Disk

- Double click on the hard disk Icon.

- Double click on the Icon of the directory that contains the game.

- Double click on the Icon DELPHINE.PRG.

- The game will load and run automatically.

AMIGA 500, 1000 AND 2000
(If you are using the AMIGA 5OO without extended memory you may have 
to unplug the external

- Switch off the computer for at least ten seconds

- Switch on computer.

- Insert the Kickstart disk In disk drive DF0.

- When the computer prompts you for WorkBench, Insert game disk No. 1 in drive DF0.

- The Game will load and run automatically.

Hard Disk Installation

- Check that the number of bytes available on the hard disk is 
larger than that used by the game.

- Create a new directory and copy the contents of each disk Into it.

Loading from the Hard Disk

- Double click on the hard disk Icon.

- Double click on the Icon of the directory that contains the game

- Double click on the Icon DELPHINE.PRG.

- The game will load and run automatically.

IBM PC AND COMPATIBLES
Hard Disk Installation

- Switch on computer.

- Insert the DOS disk In disk drive A:

- Once the computer Is up and running, Insert game disk No. I In 
disk drive A.

- Type A: and press ENTER.

- Type INSTALL and press ENTER.

- Follow the Instructions displayed on the screen.

Hard Disk Installation

- Check that the number of bytes available on the hard disk Is 
larger than that used by the game.

- Create a new directory and copy the contents of each disk Into It.

Loading from Floppy Disks

- Switch off the computer for at least ten seconds.

- Switch on computer

- Insert the DOS disk In disk drive A:

- Once the computer Is up and running, Insert game disk No. 1 In 
disk drlve A

- Type A: and press 13NTER.

- Type DELPHINE and press ENTER.

Loading from Hard Disk

- Type C: and press ENTER. (If your hard disk is not called C:, type 
the letter that corresponds to

- Type CD/DELPHINE and press ENTER.

1991 DELPHINE SOFTWARE. All rights reserved. Clnematlque is a 
trademark of Delphlne Software. Manufactured and distributed under 
license from Delphine Software by U. S. Gold Ltd

Units 2/3 Holford Way, Holford, Birmingham B6 7AX. Tel: 021-625-3366. 
Copyright subsists on this program. Unauthorized copying, lending or 
resale by any means Strictly prohibited.
