

                            OFF SHORE WARRIORS DOCS
                            =======================


    We of the C.R.I.M.E. Syndicate not only bring you the wares, but the
DOCS as well....:


   OFF SHORE WARRIORS is the new Crazy Car Clone - This time running Drugs
across the world - from Titus Software. Notably this one takes place on
the water ways of the world and involves speed boats. The Object of the
game is to make the big score in each town first.  - Race in lake
Michigan, Race in Lake Victoria, Race in Finland Gulf, and Race Baikal.
Bonus Drug sales are awarded for how fast you get to each town. Reach each
dock zone first and recieve Full Bonus payment. Anytime after that it
ranges from Half to None! Occasionally, You may need to jump a sand dune
- Don't worry be Happy!

   Combat: At the beginning of each race you begin with 3 to 5 Plasma 
Torpedoes! I recommend firing these at your faster competitors with your
Joystick although the space bar will gets the job done too. The later the
date the more torpedoes you will be given (Max of 6). Also, More drug
smugglers will be competiting with you (Max of 9)! If you can't out speed
them, You can literally blast your way into first place if you use your
torpedoes well. I recommend saving them for the fast ones. More Torpedoes
are added for each score!

   Controls: Pushing forward with the JOYSTICK will accelerate, anything
else doesn't - Pretty simple Eh?! Your current position is shown in the
top right corner. Steer to far from the marker buoys and learn the virtues
of a firey death! Pounding the Joystick Button will launch a Plasmatic
Torpedo into one of your competitors (Do this often). In late stages you
may find yourself driven into the rocks or just plain run over by one
(or more) of your competing drug smugglers - once again don't worry, be
happy - game play comtinues to the end of each lap! 

   F1  Is for all you Hertz changes Freaks
   F5  ABORTS the game
   F10 Pauses

                     Dox by: Mark Anthony, Exedore, and James Bond
                           10/10/88               9am


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
