********************************************************************** 
DDN MGT Bulletin 32              DCA DDN Defense Communications System   
22 Jan 87                        Published by: DDN Network Info Center
                                    (NIC@SRI-NIC.ARPA)  (800) 235-3155


                        DEFENSE  DATA  NETWORK

                         MANAGEMENT  BULLETIN

The DDN MANAGEMENT BULLETIN is distributed online by the DDN Network
Information Center under DCA contract as a means of communicating
official policy, procedures and other information of concern to
management personnel at DDN facilities.  Back issues may be read
through the TACNEWS server ("@n" command at the TAC) or may be
obtained by FTP (or Kermit) from the SRI-NIC host [26.0.0.73 or
10.0.0.51] using login="anonymous" and password="guest".  The pathname
for bulletins is DDN-NEWS:DDN-MGT-BULLETIN-nn.TXT (where "nn" is the
bulletin number).
**********************************************************************

              PHASE 1 OF THE DOMAIN NAME IMPLEMENTATION

The DDN Network Information Center (NIC) is directed to remove all
nondomain-style host names and nicknames from the Official DoD Host
Table, NETINFO:HOSTS.TXT, by 31 March 1987.  After that time, names
which do not conform to domain-style naming conventions, i.e. do not
have ".domain" extensions, will not be allowed in either the Official
DoD Host Table or the domain name servers.

Nicknames, or aliases, will not be permitted in either the servers or
the Official Host Table unless authorized.  Network mailers are
required to use primary host names and to accept host names containing
dots (.), as specified in the DDN mail protocols RFC 821 (MILSTD-1781)
and RFC 822.  If mailers are not now adhering to these protocol
requirements, they may experience mail delivery problems when the
nondomain-style names are discontinued.  Users sending electronic mail
should use primary host names in all mail destinations and sources.
If nicknames are used, problems may arise in mail delivery.

The NIC will notify Host Administrators as to which names or nicknames
do not now conform.  Host Administrators may change nonconforming data
by the usual procedure via Network Change Requests (NCRs) and Network
Change Directives (NCDs), if they wish, before the 31 March 1987
deadline.

Host Administrators anticipating problems with this plan should notify
DCA Code B652 (DCAB652@DDN1.ARPA), or via AUTODIN message, and the NIC
Hostmaster (HOSTMASTER@SRI-NIC.ARPA) no later than 2 weeks prior to
the scheduled cutover.

In March of 1984, the DDN began the transition to domain-style names
with the issuance of DDN Management Bulletin 22.  In that bulletin,
all hosts were required to change their primary host names to contain
".domain" extensions in accordance with RFC 897.  At the same time,
all of the old-style names (without the ".domain" extensions) were
automatically declared to be nicknames in the Official Host Table,
NETINFO:HOSTS.TXT.  This use of old-style nicknames was allowed on an
interim basis to make the transition to domain-style naming easier.
Almost three years have passed, and this transition period must now
come to a close.

The transition to naming domains has progressed to the point where
there are many domain name servers implemented and running.  In order
to maintain interoperability between hosts on the DDN using the host
table and hosts using the domain name servers, all hosts must be able
to recognize domain-style names.  It is imperative that all transition
names and nicknames be upgraded to domain-style names or be removed
from NETINFO:HOSTS.TXT so that naming is consistent and so that all
use of names adheres to the specification for domain names adopted in
1984.

