==========================================================================
==                                                                      ==
==  If you enjoy these please feel free to contact me and say hello. I  ==
==  can be reached at Sun via the Arpanet or the USENET. My email addr- ==
==  esses are:                                                          ==
==                                                                      ==
==             {ucbvax, decwrl, allegro}!sun!dbercel!toto               ==
==                                                                      ==
==                              or                                      ==
==                                                                      ==
==             dbercel@sun.com or dbercel@sun.arpa                      ==
==========================================================================

                      Hitch Hikers Guide To The Net
                       Episode 3 - The Singularans

(Arnold Lint and the crew of the Infinity are trying to decide what to do
now that they are being faced by the deadly Singularans.)

Xaphod:     Oh wow, just when we got past the Flamers, we have to run into
            the 'Singles'. The Illogical drive won't work this time.

Rod:        No, and neither will evasive actions. They all talk that way!

Gillian:    What will we do then?

Arnold Lint:I'll tell you . . . we're all going to die.

Xaphod:     Shut your cake-hole!

Martin:     I tried to tell you this trip would be a real downer, but
            would you listen?

Rod:        Quiet!

Xaphod:     I guess we should see what they want.

(Xaphod switches on the two way video telecommunicator and RadaRange. The
face of the Singularan captain appears on the screen.  He is a normal
human wearing a T-shirt which says: "Have you ever really listened to
Manilow?" He is also sporting glow in the dark pants and 10 pounds of
silver and gold chains around his neck.)

Singularan: Hey, like I'm Dirk Thawtphull. We were cruising by and saw
            your node. Interested in some meaningful relationships, free
            from the moral depravity that otherwise infects the net.


Xaphod:     Well, I kind of like depravity.

Rod:        Yah, me too.

Dirk:       Wow, you'd love our S & M encounter group then, fershure!

Arnold Lint:Your what?

Dirk:       S & M encounter group. We get together twice a week and
            exchange recipes and beatings.

Arnold Lint:How could a group like that command such a strong node?

Xaphod:     Well, the sudden popularity of Jogging induced widespread
            adoption of the principles of Single-ism. The subsequent rise
            of the sport of 'Joggering' reduced the numbers of Singularans
            to normal size. It appears that they may be making a come back
            though.

[The "Hitch Hikers Guide to the Net" defines 'Joggering' as a sport
originated in Australia to combat the sudden drop in productivity caused
by having everybody jogging. Australian champion Bruce Karnage describes
the sport: "Well, there is a different way of catching both male and
female joggers. If it's a male, you flush him out into the open with
cigarette smoke, then chase him down in your 4 x 4 Land Rover. When he's
tired, bump him with the fender to stun him momentarily. Then get out and
with your driver pick him up by all fours and run him head-first into the
side of the truck. If it's a female, bait a likely spot with designer
jogging wear and then wait for a flock to arrive. When one becomes
interested, sneak up behind her, very quietly. Then when you are about two
feet away, and you can see the sun dancing on her richly tanned flesh
caressing her well toned figure into a visual symphony of delight, split
her skull with a handy two-by-four. It's a lovely sport!" The sport later
became known as 'Walkmaning'.]

Rod:        We were on our way to Netrothea to pick up some ... uh ...
            fuel, yah that's it.
Dirk:       Well, we've got plenty of fuel, come on over and we'll let you
            have it.

Xaphod:     No, it's OK.

Dirk:       I insist!

(The Singularan ship lets out a pink and purple polka-dot ray that engulfs
the Infinity. Arnold Lint and company find themselves in a room on the
Singularan ship. It is decorated right out off the floor of a K-Mart.
K-Tel's "Feelings" album is playing "You light up my existence" in the
background, on the ceiling is a gigantic mirror, and in one corner is a
gigantic mood-bean-bag chair.)

Gillian:    How awful!

Martin:     Actually, I kind of like it, in a depressing sort of way.

Rod:        Quiet.

Arnold Lint:Where are we.

Dirk:       You're aboard the Singularan vessel "Sincerity". You will
            remain here until you learn to develop meaningful
            relationships over the Net. Meaningful relationships based on
            honesty, truth, and having nothing to do with physical
            appearance.  Relationships which will grow as you and your
            partner, or partners, share, or don't share, things you have,
            or don't have, in common. You will learn how to have every
            other sentence include the words 'special' or 'meaningful
relationship'.

Xaphod:     If he says "meaningful relationship" once more I'll have to
            pray to the porcelain buddha.

Rod:        Sickening, isn't it.

Dirk:       Right, enough of this. Wait here and we'll start programming
            you for meaningful relationships.

(Xaphod bends over a nearby table and vomits, the 12" CRT on his shoulder
starts scrolling "Uuuggghhh")

Gillian:    What did you mean about "programming" us?

Dirk:       We'll have to make you compatible with the environment and
            take away all your inhibitions when discussing your personal
            life on the Net. You'll be subjected to countless sessions
            watching repeats of "The Dating Game", "The Newlywed Game",
            and "Celebrity Wife Swapping". And that's only Stage 1!

[The "Hitch Hikers Guide to the Net" points out that the three old earth
TV shows just mentioned were actually the basis for a huge
inter-conglomerate stock monopolizing scheme started by The Phone Company.
The questions asked on these shows were actually coded messages issued by
The Phone Company to the conglomerates it was working with. These messages
told the associated conglomerates about which stocks to buy based on
information gained by The Phone Company by listening in on the phones of
important companies. The client corporations paid The Phone Company 1
million dollars for each such message.  The seemingly idiotic contestants
were, more often than not, government agents trying to break The Phone
Company's code. Chuck Barris, the originator of the shows, was later found
to be a financial genius, rivaled only by Howard Hughes.]

Rod:        We gotta get put of here!

Xaphod:     Yah.

Rod:        You know what really gets Singularans put off? Rudeness and
            crudeness!

Arnold Lint:What?

Rod:        Rudeness, if we act real crude and rude, they'll beg us to
            leave!

Xaphod:     Great, let's try it!

(Dirk returns with three gorgeous women and one well built female model
android.)

Rod:        (To the first girl) Wow, look at that pair!

Xaphod:     (To the second girl) That's a lovely grab!

Rod:        (To the third girl) OK love, drop 'em!

Martin:     (To the female android) I wave my private parts toward
            approximate vector coordinates.

Gillian:    (To Dirk) Say Dirk, if you get some Saran-Wrap and chicken
            wire, I'll get the honey and the plunger.

Dirk:       Get out of here you disgusting filthly maladjusted perverts!

(The three women and one android exit with great haste. The crew of the
Infinity is beamed back to their node.)

Dirk:       Good riddens. Put on the flip side of  "Feelings" and pass the
            cheese dip. It's their loss, for only we know what true
            meaningful relationships are. Only we know the feeling of
            wholeness that comes from showing, or not showing, what one
            feels, or doesn't feel, with someone special we care about. We
            aren't hung up on physical things, we are spiritualists. At
            least, that's what we tell everyone else.

Xaphod:     Right, now on to Netrothea, nothing can stop us now.

         ******************** End Of Part 3 ********************

Will the crew of the Infinity reach Netrothea, or will Nothing stop them?
For the answers to this, and other useless questions . . . Tune in next
time . . .  same Net-time . . . same Net-channel.

danielle
