


                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

                                THE NET
                     USER GUIDELINES AND NETIQUETTE 

                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*



                         By: Arlene H. Rinaldi
                        Computer User Services
                      Florida Atlantic University
                          September 3, 1992
            



                                                                 Page 2



                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*



                                 PREFACE



The formulation of this guide was motivated by a need to develop
guidelines for all Internet protocols to ensure that users at Florida
Atlantic University realize the Internet capabilities as a resource
available, with the provision that they are responsible in how they access
or transmit information through the Internet (The Net).

It is assumed that the reader has some familiarization with the terms and
protocols that are referenced in this document.

Permission to duplicate or distribute this document is granted with the
provision that the document remains intact.

For additions, comments, suggestions and requests for revisions, please
send E-mail to RINALDI@ACC.FAU.EDU. 









                                                                 Page 3

                                    
                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*



                            ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS



Much of this guide was developed from comments and suggestions from
NETTRAIN@UBVM (formally NET-TRAIN) LISTSERV subscribers and from several 
sources available on The Net: 



      A special acknowledgment to Wes Morgan, University of 
      Kentucky Engineering Computing Center, for his advice 
      and recommendations.


      Paul F. Lambert, Bentley College; Philip M. Howard, Saint
      Mary's University; Gordon Swan, Florida Atlantic University;
      Pauline Kartrude, Florida Atlantic University; Beth Taney,
      Penn State; Debbie Shaffer, Penn State and USDA-CIT; Henry
      DeVries, Cornell; Jim Milles, SLU Law Library; Martin Raish,
      State University of New York at Binghamton; Steve Cisler,
      Apple Corporation; Tom Zillner, Wisconsin Interlibrary
      Services; Tom Goodrich, Stanford University; Jim Gerland,
      State University of NY at Buffalo; Ros Leibensperger, Cornell;
      Paul White, Northern Michigan University; Marilyn S. Welb,
      Penn State, Judith Hopkins, State University of NY at Buffalo,
      Ros McCarthy.








                                                                 Page 4

                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*



                              INTRODUCTION




It is essential for each user on the network to recognize his/her
responsibility in having access to vast services, sites, systems and
people.  The user is ultimately responsible for his/her actions in
accessing network services.   

The "Internet" or "The Net", is not a single network; rather, it is a
group of thousands of individual networks which have chosen to allow
traffic to pass among them.  The traffic sent out to the Internet may
actually traverse several different networks before it reaches its
destination.  Therefore, users involved in this internetworking must be
aware of the load placed on other participating networks.

As a user of the network, you may be allowed to access other networks
(and/or the computer systems attached to those networks).  Each network or
system has its own set of policies and procedures.  Actions which are
routinely allowed on one network/system may be controlled, or even
forbidden, on other networks.  It is the users responsibility to abide by
the policies and procedures of these other networks/systems.  Remember,
the fact that a user *can* perform a particular action does not imply that
they *should* take that action.

The use of the network is a privilege, not a right, which may temporarily
be revoked at any time for abusive conduct.  Such conduct would include,
the placing of unlawful information on a system, the use of abusive or
otherwise objectionable language in either public or private messages, the
sending of messages that are likely to result in the loss of recipients'
work or systems, the sending of "Chain letters," or "broadcast" messages
to lists or individuals, and any other types of use which would cause
congestion of the networks or otherwise interfere with the work of
others..  

Permanent revocations can result from disciplinary actions taken by a
panel judiciary board called upon to investigate network abuses.



                                                                 Page 5

                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


                       ELECTRONIC MAIL AND FILES
                          USER RESPONSIBILITY


            
The content and maintenance of a user's electronic mailbox is the users
responsibility:
  
-     Check E-mail daily and remain within your limited disk quota.

-     Delete unwanted messages immediately since they take up disk
      storage. 

-     Keep messages remaining in your electronic mailbox to a minimum.

-     Mail messages can be downloaded or extracted to files then to disks
      for future reference.

-     Never assume that your E-mail can be read by no one except 
      yourself; others may be able to read or access your mail.  Never
      send or keep anything that you would not mind seeing on 
      the evening news.


The content and maintenance of a user's disk storage area is the users
responsibility:   

-     Keep files to a minimum.  Files should be downloaded to your
      personal computer's hard drive or to disks.

-     Routinely and frequently virus scan your system, especially when
      receiving or downloading files from other systems to prevent the
      spread of a virus.

-     Your files may be accessible by persons with system privileges, 
      so do not maintain anything private in your disk storage area.





                                                                 Page 6
                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

                            TELNET PROTOCOL

-     Many telnetable services have documentation files available online 
      (or via ftp).  Download and review instructions locally as opposed 
      to tying up ports trying to figure out the system.

-     Be courteous to other users wishing to seek information or the 
      institution might revoke Telnet access; remain only on the system
      long enough to get your information, then exit off of the system.

-     Screen captured data or information should be downloaded to your
      personal computer's hard disk or to disks. 



                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


             ANONYMOUS FTP - FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL


-     Users should respond to the PASSWORD prompt with their E-mail
      address, so if that site chooses, it can track the level of FTP
      usage.   If your E-mail address causes an error, enter GUEST for the
      next PASSWORD prompt.

-     When possible limit downloads, especially large downloads (1 Meg+),
      for after normal business hours locally and for the remote ftp host;
      preferably late in the evening.
      
-     Adhere to time restrictions as requested by archive sites.  Think in
      terms of the current time at the site that's being visited, not of
      local time. 

-     Copy downloaded files to your personal computer hard drive or disks
      to remain within disk quota. 

-     When possible, inquiries to Archie should be in mail form.

-     It's the user's responsibility when downloading programs, to check
      for copyright or licensing agreements.  If the program is beneficial
      to your use, pay any authors registration fee.  If there is any
      doubt, don't copy it; there have been many occasions on which
      copyrighted software has found its way into ftp archives. Support
      for any downloaded programs should be requested from the originator
      of the application. Remove unwanted programs from your systems.


                                                                  Page 7
                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


                        ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
          (E-mail, LISTSERV groups, Mailing lists, and Usenet)


-     Keep paragraphs and messages short and to the point.

-     Focus on one subject per message.

-     Be professional and careful what you say about others.  E-mail is
      easily forwarded.

-     Cite all quotes, references and sources.

-     Limit line length and avoid control characters.

-     Follow chain of command procedures for corresponding with superiors.

      For example, don't send a complaint via E-mail directly to the "top"
      just because you can.

-     Don't use the academic networks for commercial or proprietary work.

-     Include your signature at the bottom of E-mail messages.  Your
      signature footer should include your name, position, affiliation and
      Internet and/or BITNET addresses and should not exceed more than 4
      lines.  Optional information could include your address and phone
      number. 

-     Capitalize words only to highlight an important point or to
      distinguish a title or heading.   *Asterisks* surrounding a word 
      also can be used to make a stronger point.

-     Use discretion when forwarding mail to group addresses or
      distribution lists.  It's preferable to reference the source of a
      document and provide instructions on how to obtain a copy.

-     It is considered extremely rude to forward personal email to mailing
      lists or Usenet without the original author's permission. 

-     Be careful when using sarcasm and humor. Without face to face
      communications your joke may be viewed as criticism.

-     Respect copyright and license agreements.

-     When quoting another person, edit out whatever isn't directly
      applicable to your reply.  Including the entire article will annoy
      those reading it.

-     Abbreviate when possible:  

      Examples:
      - IMHO      =     in my humble/honest opinion
      - FYI       =     for your information    
      - BTW       =     by the way
      - Flame     =     antagonistic criticism
      - :-)       =     happy face for humor



                                                                 Page 8
            *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
      
            LISTSERV AND MAILING LIST DISCUSSION GROUPS

Some mailing lists have low rates of traffic, others can flood your
mailbox with several hundred mail messages per day.  Numerous incoming
messages from various listservers or mailing lists by multiple users,
requires extensive system processing which can tie up valuable resources.
Subscription to Interest Groups or Discussion Lists should be kept to a
minimum and should not exceed what your disk quota can handle, or you for
that matter.  

-     Keep your questions and comments relevant to the focus of the
      discussion group.

-     Resist the temptation to "flame" others on the list.  Remember that
      these discussions are "public" and meant for constructive exchanges. 
      Treat the others on the list as you would want them to treat you.

-     When posting a question to the discussion group, request that
      responses be directed to you personally.  Post a summary or answer
      to your question to the group.

-     When replying to a message posted to a discussion group, check the
      address to be certain it's going to the intended location (person or
      group).

-     When signing up for a group, save your subscription confirmation
      letter for reference.

-     When going away for more than a week, unsubscribe or suspend mail
      from any mailing lists or LISTSERV services.

-     If you can respond to someone else's question, do so through email. 
      Twenty people answering the same question on a large list can fill
      your mailbox (and those of everyone else on the list) quickly.

-     Use your own personal E-mail account, don't subscribe using a shared
      office account.

-     Occassionaly subscribers to the list who are not familiar with
      proper netiquette will submit requests to SUBSCRIBE or UNSUBSCRIBE
      directly to the list itself.   Be tolerant of this activity, and
      possibly provide some useful advice as opposed to being critical.

-     Other people on the list are not interested in your desire to be
      added or deleted.  Any requests regarding administrative tasks such
      as being added or removed from a list should be made to the
      appropriate area, not the list itself.  Mail for these types of
      requests should be sent to the following respectively:

      LISTSERV GROUPS         -     LISTSERV@host


      MAILING LISTS           -     listname-REQUEST@host
                                          or  
                                    listname-OWNER@host







                                                                   Page 9

For either Mailing Lists or LISTSERV groups, to subscribe or unsubscribe,
in the body of the message include: 

      SUBSCRIBE listname yourfirstname yourlastname
      (To be added to the subscription)
or
      UNSUBSCRIBE   listname 
      (To be removed from the subscription)     



                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

    
            THE TEN COMMANDMENTS FOR COMPUTER ETHICS
               from the Computer Ethics Institute
    


    1.      Thou shalt not use a computer to harm other people.
    
    2.      Thou shalt not interfere with other people's computer work.
    
    3.      Thou shalt not snoop around in other people's files.
    
    4.      Thou shalt not use a computer to steal.
    
    5.      Thou shalt not use a computer to bear false witness.
    
    6.      Thou shalt not use or copy software for which you have not
            paid.
      
    7.      Thou shalt not use other people's computer resources without
            authorization.
      
    8.      Thou shalt not appropriate other people's intellectual output.
    
    9.      Thou shalt think about the social consequences of the program
            you write.
        
    10.     Thou shalt use a computer in ways that show consideration and
            respect.
      

                                                                Page 10
                 *-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*

                              BIBLIOGRAPHY

      Kehoe, Brendan P. "A Beginner's Guide to the Internet: Zen and the
Art of the Internet", First Edition, January 1992.

      Shapiro, Norman, et al. "Towards an Ethics and Etiquette for
Electronic  Mail"., Santa Monica, CA: Rand Corporation (publication
R-3283-NSF/RC), 1985.

      Von Rospach, Chuq.  "A Primer on How to Work With the USENET
Community"

      Horton, Mark, Spafford, Gene. "Rules of conduct on Usenet"

      "A Guide to Electronic Communication & Network Etiquette", revised
and submitted by Joan Gargano, edited by Ivars Balkits, Computing services
University of California Davis.

      "Heartland Free-Net Registered User Guidelines", Bradley University,
Peoria, Il.

      "Terms and Conditions of Membership and Affiliation", CREN
Information Center, October 25, 1990

      "Electronic Mail and Networks: New Tools for Institutional Research
and Planning."  by Dan Updegrove, John Muffo and Jack Dunn, University of
Pennsylvania.

      "Exploring Internet Training Series, Module 1- Exploring Internet:
Using your Computer to Communicate", by Deborah Shaffer, ES-USDA, CIT and
Pennsylvania State University, Henry DeVries; Extension Electronic
Technology Group, Cornell University; Gregory Parham, ES_USDA, CIT.

      "Exploring Internet Training Series, Module 2- Mail-based
Information Delivery: Alamanac and Listservs". by Deborah Shaffer, ES-
USDA, CIT and Pennsylavia State University; Henry DeVries, Extension
Electronic Technology Group, Cornell University; Gregory Parham, ES_USDA,
CIT.






.
