             Proposed Uninet-za Acceptable Use Guidelines
             --------------------------------------------
 
                                DRAFT
 
                                UNINET
                        Acceptable Use Policy
 
 
The purpose of UNINET is to support research and other scholarly
activities in the Republic of South Africa by providing access to
unique resources and the opportunity for collaborative work.
 
This statement represents a guide to the acceptable use of the UNINET
trunk circuits.  It is intended to address only the issue of use of
the trunk circuits.  It is expected that various other networks in
the RSA will formulate their own use policies for traffic that will
not traverse the trunk circuits.  The trunk circuits in question are
not limited to those that are in their entirety within the Republic
of South Africa, but include all international circuits, connections
and gateways as well.
 
(1) All use must be consistent with the purposes of UNINET.
 
(2) The intent of this policy is to make clear certain uses which are
    consistent with the purposes of UNINET, not to exhaustively enumerate
    all such possible uses.
 
(3) The UNINET Project Office may at any time make determinations
    that particular uses are or are not consistent with the purposes of
    UNINET.  Such determinations will be reported to the Uninet Control
    Board and to the UNINET user community.
 
(4) If a use is consistent with the purposes of UNINET, then
    activities in direct support of that use will be considered
    consistent with the purposes of UNINET.  For example, administrative
    communications for the support infrastructure needed for research and
    instruction are acceptable.
 
(5) Use in support of research or instruction at not-for-profit
    institutions of research or instruction in the Republic of South
    Africa is acceptable.
 
(6) Use for a project which is part of or supports a research or
    instruction activity for a not-for-profit institution of research or
    instruction in the Republic of South Africa is acceptable, even if
    any or all parties to the use are located or employed elsewhere.  For
    example, communications directly between industrial affiliates
    engaged in support of a project for such an institution is
    acceptable.
 
(7) Use for commercial activities by for-profit institutions is
    generally not acceptable unless it can be justified under (4) above.
 
(8) Use for research or instruction at for-profit institutions may or
    may not be consistent with the purposes of UNINET, and will be
    reviewed by the UNINET Project Office on a case-by-case basis.
 
 
                                  DRAFT
September 1990
===============================================================================
 
 
Without question, the use of the NSFNET Guidelines as a basis is
acknowledged.
 
 
Mike Lawrie
5 September 1990
 
 
 
                ----Statement by Rhodes University----
 
 
Rhodes University is an autonomous institution, founded by the Rhodes
University Act of 1951.  Control of the University is vested in the
Council, which elects its own Chairman.  The Chancellor, elected by
the Council, is the Head of the University and is empowered, in the
name of the university, to confer all degrees.  The Principal and
Vice-Chancellor is the chief academic and administrative officer of
the University, and is ex officio a member of the Council and the
Chairman of the Senate.
 
The Council consists of a maximum of 31 members, as follows:  The
Principal, the Vice-Principal, four members appointed by the State
President, four elected by the Senate, three elected by Convocation
(ie graduates) two elected by the donors, a representative of each of
the Municipalities of Grahamstown, Port Elizabeth, East London, King
William's Town, Queenstown and Uitenhage, one representative of schools
in the Eastern Province, one representative of associated research
institutions, not more than four persons appointed by such bodies as
may be prescribed by the Statute, and not more than four members
co-opted in terms of Section 7(1)(m) of the Rhodes University Act.
 
Rhodes University has always been proud of its stance for academic
freedom.  In this regard, there is a strong record of opposition to
the discriminatory race-based laws that have prevented academically
qualified persons from pursuing their studies by what is considered
to be normal methods and under normal conditions.
 
The University is not associated with any apartheid-enforcing
entities.  The University will not knowingly permit any of the
information that flows through its computer systems to be used by, or
made available directly or indirectly to any apartheid enforcing
entity or police or military entities or any entity identified by the
United States Department of State as enforcing apartheid as reflected
in Supplement No 1 to Part 785 of the Export Administration
Regulations.
 
Further, the University will co-operate fully with any investigation
by United States officials into any alleged breach of this
undertaking.
 
 
Signed for and on behalf of Rhodes University
 
(Registrar, Rhodes University)
 
                             ----ends----
--  
uucp: uunet!m2xenix!puddle!5!494!4!CCML.RURES
Internet: CCML.RURES@f4.n494.z5.fidonet.org

