r39





***CALL THE MORGUE AT:(201)376-4462***

           Cable Descrambling
        (Uploaded by Robin Hood)

If you have cable TV but are not fortunate enough
 to have the Premium services, here is a simple way
to steal Cinemax, The Movie Channel, Showtime, the
Disney Channel, and any other service that appears
as a bussing fuzzy picture (that you can ALMOST
get clearly by fine tuning). This method also
works on channels that appear as a lined flashing
screen that produce a beeping sound. These
channels are not scrambled, but instead a garbage
transmission is sent at the same frequency.
Therefore, in order to receive the movie servcices
clearly, you must filter out the garbage.

Here is a simple way to do this:


1) Examine the back of your TV set. Find the VHF
antenna terminals (these are the antenna terminals
that the cable service is hooked up to). Get a
piece of antenna wire (about 3 feet long). Strip
one end of the wire and and attach it to the VHF
terminals along with the cable. Tune in to one of
the movie services and adjust the fine tuner until
you get the cleanest picture. Cut off about 1/4
inch of the  antenna wire and adjust the fine
tuner. Continue to do this until you get a nearly
perfect picture (you should not have to cut off
more than 6 inches of the antenna wire). Get a
piece of aluminum foil and wrap it around the
antenna wire slide it up and down until you have a
perfect picture. This is a simple yet effective
way to get movies for free. 

More in depth information on descramblers and
converters ma be obtained by writing CABLE FACTS,
Box 711-R, Pataskala, OH 43062. They have an
excellent publication available for $8.95.

Also write to RANDOM ACCESS, Box 41770R, Phoenix,
AZ 85080. Ask for their Subscription TV Manual
that deals with video scrambling techniques.

   TRY THE ARMOURY TOO: (201)267-1207
       THE MORGUE       (201)376-4462



8: Text Philez A-O
[UD:Punter][32 Min.][40]: