                   COMMUNICATIONS IN SPACE))EDITION 5.5

      		    THE LAST DXers GUIDE TO THE GALAXY


George Wood								        January, 1994





                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


    Introduction)Satellites...........................................1

    Part I: Satellite Broadcasting)TVRO

		  	North America..........................................2

			Latin America

			Europe and Astra......................................12

			Africa................................................26

			Middle Eastern Satellite Broadcasting

			Asia and the Pacific..................................29

			Global Satellite Channels.............................33


   Part II: Weather and other "Utility" Satellites

			Weather Satellites....................................36

               Amateur Radio in Space................................38


   Part III: Monitoring the Space Shuttle, MIR, and the Military

			The Shuttle and MIR...................................40

               Military Communications in Space......................43


   Part IV: Horizons.................................................44


   For More Information..............................................45


      Copyright 1994 Radio Sweden. Reproduction of this publication is 
     permitted  provided credit is given to Radio Sweden and
     "Communications in Space".
     Radio Sweden is not responsible for anything that might happen
	 because of possible mistakes, inaccuracies, or out)of)date 	 
     information.

INTRODUCTION SATELLITES

	In the beginning, the Great Prophet Marconi cast his bread uponthe waves.
Long, medium, even short wave))the ether was filled, and athome listeners tuned
the bands, and heard far away signals fromBonaire, Motala, and Oakland.

	Then, on October 4, 1957, the world changed. The Soviet Unionlaunched the
Sputnik satellite, and listeners around the world tuned into its signals just
above 20 MHz. The Space Age had begun.

	What we find is this...the skies are filled with satellites thatcan be
monitored, some with simple equipment, some with more complexand expensive
gear. Weather pictures, satellite TV, astronauts andcosmonauts, computer
bulletin boards in the sky, are all there waiting.

	We used to call satellite DXing the shortwave listening of thefuture. Well,
the future is now. The signals are there, and more arecoming. This guide is
intended to help you tune in to signals fromspace. Equipment varies from USD
2000 for C)Band TVRO dishes andreceivers to less than USD 200 for a scanner and
discone antenna formonitoring weather satellites.

	Communications satellites were first proposed by science fictionwriter Arthur
C. Clarke in 1945. Clarke pointed out that if a satellitewas positioned high
enough above the equator (36,000 kilometers or23,000 miles), its orbit could be
matched to the rotation of the Earth.The satellite would appear to remain fixed
in one particular spot inthe sky. Such a position would be ideal for relaying
telephone, radioand television communications. Three such satellites
locatedequidistant from each other could cover the entire Earth.

	It took technology a while to catch up with Clarke's idea. In 1957the Soviet
Union launched Sputnik, the world's first artificialsatellite. In 1962 the
United States launched Telstar, the firstcommunications satellite. Today there
are more than 100 commercial TVand telecommunications satellites in
geostationary orbit, and many moreare scheduled for launch before the end of
the century.

	In addition, there are communications satellites in non*geostationary orbits
(such as the former Soviet Molniya), weather andother Earth resources
satellites, amateur radio satellites, andAmerican and CIS space vehicles. All
are accessible, if you have theright equipment.


The Third World AA

     In many ways, Third World countries have more to gain from
satellite communications than do the developed nations. Arthur C.
Clarke is today a citizen of Sri Lanka, and a dedicated advocate ofsatellites
for Third World development. As one of Sri Lanka'srepresentatives at a UNESCO
conference in 1981, Clarke said:

     "To many developing countries, satellites are ESSENTIAL; they will
make it unnecessary to build the elaborate and expensive ground systems
required in the past. Indeed, to many countries, satellites could be a
matter of life and death."

\v\PART I: SATELLITE BROADCASTING)TVRO

	Television Receive Only (TVRO) systems allow home monitors to tunein to radio
and television from geostationary satellites. There arearound 3.5 million TVRO
installations in North America and more than 1million in Europe. Numbers are
rapidly increasing in India, China, andother parts of Asia. Latin America and
Africa are areas of expansion,where satellites are generally used for relays to
television stationsand cable networks, rather than direct to home (DTH).

	To tune in to broadcast satellites, you need a dish antenna andreceiver.
Antennas vary from 20 centimeters for the strongest DBSsatellites to 3 meters
or more for weak signals in the C)band. Antennascan also be fixed in one
position, for reception of just one satellite,or motorised, to permit reception
of many satellites. The signals arepicked up by Low Noise Block amplifiers
(LNBs) and fed by low losscables to receivers. Fixed antennas can even have
extra LNBs amountedto pick up additional satellites. 

	Different bands are used for satellite broadcasting. Some are morecommon in
different parts of the world. Higher frequency bandsgenerally require smaller
dish antennas. The satellite TV bands are:

	S)Band	1700)3000 MHz
	C)Band	3700)4200 MHz 
	Ku1)Band	10.9)11.75 GHz
	Ku2)Band 	11.75)12.5 GHz (DBS)
	Ku3)Band	12.5)12.75 GHz
	Ka)Band	18.0)20.0 GHz

	
I. North America

	Most North American TVRO still uses the C)Band, although Ku)banduse is
increasing. C)band dish antennas are at least nine feet (3meters) in diameter.
Dishes and receiver prices start at around USD1000 for motorized systems
without decoders, and USD 1500 for systemswith decoders. There are also fixed
dish systems available for theGalaxy 5 satellite, which is currently the
American "hot bird",offering a wide variety of free and subscription
programming (seebelow). An antenna and receiver for Galaxy 5 is available for
aroundUSD 800, with a decoder for an extra USD 375. 

	Here are the North American C and Ku)Band downlink frequencies:

	Channel  1 = 3720/11730 MHz	Channel 13 = 3960/12096 MHz
	Channel  2 = 3740/11743		Channel 14 = 3980/12109 
	Channel  3 = 3760/11791		Channel 15 = 4000/12157
	Channel  4 = 3780/11804		Channel 16 = 4020/12170
	Channel  5 = 3800/11852		Channel 17 = 4040 
	Channel  6 = 3820/11865		Channel 18 = 4060 
	Channel  7 = 3840/11913		Channel 19 = 4080 
	Channel  8 = 3860/11926    	Channel 20 = 4100 
	Channel  9 = 3880/11974		Channel 21 = 4120 
	Channel 10 = 3900/11987		Channel 22 = 4140 
	Channel 11 = 3920/12035		Channel 23 = 4160 
	Channel 12 = 3940/12048		Channel 24 = 4180 

	The Ku)Band frequencies are based on a 16 channel system. For the32 channel
format, half)spacing is used.\v\
	The 27 C and Ku)Band satellites above North America stretch from69 degrees
West longitude to 139 degrees West. They typically carry 24transponders (each
transponder can carry one analog TV channel andseveral radio channels or many
voice and data channels). The oldersatellite transponders each transmit with 5
to 8 watts of power. Thenewer generation, such as Satcom C4 and Telstar 401,
are 16 to 20 wattsoutput.

	American programmers, led by the pay)film channel Home Box Office,began
scrambling signals in 1986. On April 27, 1986 a "video hacker"calling himself
Captain Midnight (the hi)tech hero of a 1960's TVseries) interrupted Home Box
Office's broadcast of the film "Falcon andthe Snowman". He transmitted a
message over the satellite link,overpowering HBO's uplink to the Galaxy 1
satellite. The message was aprotest against HBO's scrambling. (The choice of
the film was apt, asit concerns military spy satellites.)

	John McDougal, who called himself Captain Midnight. was traced toa Florida
uplink station where he worked part)time. He was fined USD5000.

	Many popular American satellite channels now scramble theirsignals, using the
VC II or VC II+ systems. Modern satellite receiverscome equipped with decoders,
and TVRO enthusiasts can subscribe to thecoded channels, either by monthly
payment to the stations directly, orto organizations offering special packages.


	The company manufacturing VC II decoders, General Instruments, hasa market
monopoly. Separate decoders for receivers lacking them areextremely difficult
to find, and can cost between USD 600 and 800.There is a lively underground of
enthusiasts hacking decoders, hardwareand software, in order to view pay
channels for free. A digitalcompression system allowing up to 10 channels on a
single transponder,General Instrument's, DigiCipher, is gradually being
introduced. 

	American satellites have recently introduced a new system usingonly 2 degree
spacing, which may result in interference from adjacentsatellites with smaller
dishes. Here are the satellites above NorthAmerica, and some of the more
interesting satellite channels (C)bandand uncoded unless otherwise indicated):

	Satcom C5 (139 degrees): Also known as Aurora II, it has reachedits projected
end)of)life, and is primarily used for non)videopurposes. Alaska Satellite TV
is on transponder 24. 

	Satcom C1 (137 degrees): Mainly the western coded feeds of networkaffiliates
from Denver. The Fox Network is on transponder 19, with theJade Channel in
Chinese on transponder 5 and TV Japan, the NHK feed toUnited States, is on
transponder 17. NBC, which otherwise uses Ku)bandon the K)2 satellite, has its
eastern feed on transponder 8, which issometimes in the clear.

	Satcom C4 (135 degrees): This high)powered satellite was launchedon August 31,
1992. Deutsche Welle is on transponder 5, Italy's RAI on7, shopping channels on
9 and 10, music channel The Box on 11, theTravel Channel on 13, the Cable
Health Club on 14, and C)SPAN2 from theU.S. Senate on 19. Viacom uses this
satellite for its eastern codedservices, including MTV, VH)1, Nickelodeon, and
the new digitally*encrypted MTV Latino in Spanish.\v\
	Galaxy 1 (133 degrees): This satellite includes several popularcoded services,
including the Disney Channel (West), Comedy Central(West), The Cartoon Network,
Cinemax (East), HBO (East), Showtime 2, and the Discovery Channel. Uncoded
services include the TV FoodNetwork, the Nostalgia Channel, shopping,
religious, and Spanishlanguage services Univision and Galavision. Other
services have movedto Galaxy 5.

	Satcom C3 (131 degrees): This powerful new satellite was launchedon September
10, 1992. It carries many popular coded services,including the Family Channel,
Lifetime, Arts and Entertainment,Showtime, and Nickelodeon. Uncoded services
include the LearningChannel, Courtroom)TV, C)SPAN1, two shopping channels, and
E!Entertainment.

	ASC)1 (128 degrees): 18 C)band and 6 Ku)band transponders. On C*band, the Home
Dish Market Channel is on transponder 7, religiousprogramming on transponder
12, Channel America on 20, and SCOLA, whichcarries news from TV stations around
the world, in on 23. (News fromSweden's TV4 is now carried Monday to Friday at
7:30 AM Eastern time,and on Saturdays at 6:00 AM Eastern.) There are occasional
transponderson Ku)band channels 23 and 24.

	G)Star 2 (125 degrees) Ku)band only: Turner's Airport Channel ison transponder
20.

	Galaxy 5 (125 degrees): This new satellite is the first of a newgeneration of
high)powered satellites, and is somewhat similar toEurope's Astra as a
"hotbird" target for fixed systems. It includesmany popular coded services,
including: the Disney Channel (transponder1), Playboy (2), CNN (5), Turner
Broadcasting (6), WGN (7), Home BoxOffice (8 and 15), ESPN (9), The Family
Channel (11), the DiscoveryChannel (12), CNBC (13), the new ESPN 2 (14, and
initially in theclear), Cinemax (16), TNT (17), The Nashville Network (18), the
USANetwork (19), CNN Headline News (22), and Arts and Entertainment
(23).Uncoded services include a religious broadcaster (3), the ScienceFiction
Channel (4), a music channel (10), Black Entertainment TV (20),and Mind
Extension University (21). Viacom is carrying out digitalcompression tests on
transponder 24.

	Telstar 303 (123 degrees): Carries mainly TVN pay)per)viewprogramming. Fox
(East) is on transponder 18, Fox (West) on transponder23.

	SBS)5 (123 degrees) Ku)band only: mostly college and pro sportsfeeds.

	Morelos 1 (113.5 degrees) and Morelos 2 (116.8 degrees): Mexico'sMorelos 1
offers a number of local stations and sports feeds, somecoded and not available
to the US market. Morales 2 is less active, butTurner Broadcasting's TNT Latin
America, coded and not available forthe US market, is on transponder 12.

	Anik E1 (111.1 degrees): Canadian channels and feeds. The TVNorthern Canada
service for Native Americans is on transponder 19, andTV5 Quebec is on
transponder 17. Occasional transmissions of news andsports on Ku)band.

\v\	Anik E2 (107.3 degrees): Canadian stations including weather ontransponder
1 and relays of the Canadian House of Commons ontransponder 24, with sound in
English and French on separatesubcarriers. The CBC uses transponder 11
(Pacific), 15 (French), and 19(Atlantic), and other transponders for feeds. CBC
Newsworld ontransponder 16 relays BBC World Service Television, but is coded in
theOak system, as are several other transponders. Visnews/London
usestransponder 17. There are BBC feeds on transponder 7, including thefinal
10 minutes of BBC "Breakfast News" weekdays at 3:00 AM EasternTime. Many
Canadian Channels on Ku)band as well.
	
	G)Star 4 (105 degrees) Ku)band only: News and sports feeds (CNN ontransponders
21, 26, and 28), The Classroom Channel on transponders 31and 32.

	Galaxy 6 (103 degrees): Moved from 99 degrees, sports feeds, withthe NHK feed
to Tokyo on transponder 22.

	G)Star 1 (103 degrees) Ku)band only: news and sports feeds.

	Spacenet 4 (101 degrees): PBS uses transponders 4, 6, 8, 10, and12. Newscasts
from Britain's ITN can be found around 17:30 Eastern Timevia PBS on transponder
10. There's a religious broadcaster ontransponder 9. Three of the six Ku-band
transponders have gone bad andare considered unusable. 

	Galaxy 4 (99 degrees): Has replaced Galaxy 6 and Westar 4 at thisposition. CBS
makes extensive use of this satellite and Galaxy 7, withoccasional transponders
in the clear, especially relays of the "CBSEvening News" and sports feeds. CBS
uses transponders 16, 17, 18, 19,20, 21 and 24. Religious broadcasters on
transponders 6, 15, and 23,Spanish on 8, 13, and 14. On  Ku)band, NASA Select
uses transponder 18,and the National Weather Net is on transponder 12. There
are also manynews and sports feeds.

	SBS)2 (97 degrees) Ku)band only: NBC News Channel is ontransponder 8, NBC
feeds on transponders 3 and 9.

	SBS)6 (95 degrees) Ku)band only: CONUS News feeds on transponders12 and 13,
Asia Net (coded) on transponder 14.

	BB	Galaxy 3 (93.5 degrees):  The Caribbean Satellite Network is ontransponder
14, ABC is occasionally in the clear on transponder 18, asis TV Asia (Hindi) on
transponder 7. Other coded channels are EmpireSports Network (2) and Radio
Television Portugal (5). There arereligious broadcasters on transponders 11, 12
and 21, shopping channelson 10, 13, 15, and 17. The entertainment channel
Showcase America is ontransponder 22.

	G)Star 3 (93 degrees): Ku)band only, in inclined orbit, onlyoccasional
reception is possible.

	Galaxy 7 (91 degrees): This new high)powered satellite carries 24transponders
in the C)band (16 watts each), and 24 in the Ku)band (50watts each). CBS is a
major user on C)band, sometimes in the clear,with the Western network feed on
transponder 2 and the Eastern feed on19, and newsfeeds on 18. Many channels
used for feeds, with the FammilyNetwork on transponder 14. On Ku)band, there
are many college and prosports feeds, the Asia)American Satellite Network in
Chinese (12), TheAsia Net in Korean (15), and the Fire and Emergency TV Network
(17). \v\
	On December 6, 1993 Emirates Dubai TV began broadcasts on Galaxy 7in Arabic
and English.

	Spacenet 3 (87 degrees): Nebraska Educational Television is ontransponders 2
and 4. There are coded relays of local TV stations inDallas, New York, and Los
Angeles and several sports channels. CNNInternational and TNT Latin America is
coded, not for the U.S. market,on transponder 16. CNN newsfeeds in Spanish, not
coded, are ontransponder 11. On Ku)band, there are sports feeds on transponders
6and 10.

	Satcom K)1 (85 degrees) Ku)band only: PrimeStar DBS pay channelsin B)MAC.

 	Telstar 302 (85 degrees): Has taken over from Telstar 301 as amajor feed
satellite. Paramount uplinks such programs as "Star Trek:The Next Generation"
and "Deep Space Nine" on transponder 3. Severalcoded services, including HBO 2
and 3, and Cinemax 2. The ABC Easternfeed on transponder 10 is sometimes in the
clear.

	Satcom K)2 (81 degrees) Ku)band only: NBC uses transponders 3(East), 7
(Pacific), 10 (sports), 15 (news and sports), 19 (Central),23 (newsfeeds), and
27 (newsfeeds). The North American ChineseTelevision Network is on transponder
28. 

	SBS)4 (77 degrees) Ku)band only: NBC has acquired the entirecapacity of this
satellite, the first time a broadcast network hasarranged to be the sole user
of a satellite. The network will haveaccess for occasional use until February,
1994, when it will have full*time access to all transponders. Hughes has allowed
the satellite tomove into an inclined orbit, which will mean NBC affiliates
must havespecial tracking equipment, but the expected lifetime of the
satellitehas been extended by as much as ten years, until well into the
nextcentury.

	Galaxy 2 (74 degrees): CNN feeds can be found on transponder 9,sports feeds on
many others.

	Satcom 2R (72 degrees): NASA Select TV, including live video fromspace shuttle
missions, is on transponder 13. Programming is in fourhour blocks, repeated
during the broadcast day. The Arab Network ofAmerica on transponder 1 is a
Saudi)financed channel seeking to reachthe one million Arabic)speaking
Americans and expatriates in the U.S.It hopes to broadcast 24 hours a day of
news, entertainment andreligious programming. New England Cable News is on
transponder 21, NBCsports feeds on 20, the Outdoor Channel on 3, and shopping
channels on7 and 11.

	Spacenet 2 (69 degrees West): The United States InformationAgency's Worldnet
uses transponder 3. There are Spanish feeds andprogramming on transponders 2
(GEMS TV), 4 (Canal SUR))coded), and 5(NBC Canal de Noticias). Main Street TV
is on transponder 7. On Ku)bandthere are news and sports feeds on transponders
4 and 10, educationalprogramming on transponder 5.

	Intelsat 513 (53 degrees): is also used to relay signals fromEurope to North
America. Australia uses the satellite to relay TVprograms from London to Los
Angeles. They are retransmitted toAustralia from there on Intelsat 508 over the
Pacific.\v\
	Panamsat 1 (45 degrees): used to relay across the Atlantic, toLatin America
and the Caribbean on C)band and to North America andEurope on Ku)band. RTV
Beograd is on 11.760 GHz to North America, TVJapan feeds on 11.920 GHz, and
Peru's Canal Sur on 4.140 GHz. 

	Intelsat 601 (27.5 degrees), generally a European satellite, alsocarries NTSC
transmissions to North America from Europe. During thelead up to the Gulf War
its predecessor Intelsat VI)F4 was used forNTSC feeds from the United States,
presumably programs for Americansoldiers in the Gulf, on Ku)band 11.056 and
11.090 GHz. BBC WorldService Television is being relayed uncoded to the CBC on
C)bandtransponder 4, presumably 3.780 GHz.

	Intelsat)K (21.5 degrees): This Ku)band only satellite waslaunched in June,
1992, also to relay signals across the Atlantic. Thesatellite carries 32
high)powered television channels, which can bedirected to North America (as far
as the Midwest), Europe (as far eastas Greece), and selected parts of South
America. All beams will use11.45-11.7 GHz, while 11.7-11.95 GHz will also be
used to the Americas.
	Deutsche Welle and Italy's RAI use this satellite to relay theirservices to
North America.


     Coming Channels and Satellites

	Rupert Murdoch's Fox Inc. says that it will formally launch itslong planned
basic cable network on March 1, 1994, and it has alreadysigned agreements with
one-third of US cable networks for itsdistribution.  The network, known as FX,
will be a generalentertainment network. New networks from Paramount and Time
Warner arealso planned.

	Turner Broadcasting will introduce two new channels next year, adomestic feed
of CNN International, and Turner Classic Movies. TurnerClassic Movies will
debut on April 14, 1994, the exact centennialanniversary of the first public
movie showing in New York City. It willair hundreds of movies from the 1930's
to the 1980's. 

	Time Warner and Spiegel Inc. have announced they will launch twocable
television home shopping channels next year, including aninteractive "video
shopping mall". The joint venture makrs the firstattempt by either company to
develop a home shopping business. Thechannels will feature clothes,
accessories, and home furnishing sfromSpiegel's catalog and from its Eddie
Bauer and other specialitydivisions.

	The interactive channel will make its debut next April on anexperimental cable
network Time Warner is building in Orlanda, Florida."The interactive channel
will, in effect, be a video shopping mall,"say the two companies. "Cable
customers will be able to enter anycatalog 'store' at any time, view a variety
of merchandise in fullmotion video and make purchases on demand."

	A more conventional home shopping channel with a working title of"The Catalog
Channel" will start in the first quarter of next year onTime Warner's cable
systems, the second largest in the US, with 7.1million subscribers in 36
states. The channel will later be offered toother cable operators. \v\
	ValueVision International Inc., a TV home shopping network, hassigned up for a
C-band transponder on Hughes Communications'next-generation Galaxy 1-R
satellite, set to be located at 133 degreeswest longitude. 

	The video game company Sega is planning to launch The Sega Channelin 1994.
Initially, viewers in 13 American cities will be offered achance to download
games for Sega's Genesis megadrive games machine,using a special decoder,
before the service launches nationally in theUnited States. Sega has joined
forces with Time Warner and the giantcable operator TCI to form the network.
The 24)hour broadcast servicewill feature specially)engineered play games,
previews, hints and tips.
Users will supply their own video games machine and rent the decoderinterface
which enables them to utilise the programming carried by TheSega Channel. Sega
is rumored to be seeking access to a transponder onAstra, for a European
service next year.

	The Public Broadcasting System, PBS, together with WGBH in Bostonand WNET in
New York, are planning to launch a channel devotedexclusively to cultural
programming. The new channel, called HorizonsTV, is expected to be running by
the end of 1994.

 	PBS is expanding enormously when it moves to the Telstar 401satellite, which
was launched on December 15, 1993. The satellite is tobegin regular operation
in February, 1994.
	
	PBS intends to move to 6 Ku)band transponders on the newsatellite, 3 digital
and 3 analog. C)band transmissions on Spacenet 4transponder 4 would remain
analog for dish owners. 

	On Telstar 401 PBS will be using DigiCipher digital compressiontechniques to
squeeze 8 to 10 channels into each transponder. PBS plansto provide a total of
more than 40 Ku)band channels, creating what isbeing described as an "education
neighborhood". Most of these newchannels will be used for educational
programming to schools. The plansinclude two way contact, in which
participating classes would interactwith the programming, sending data from
computers over the telephone tothe closest PBS station, which would relay
signals to the satellite. 

	One transponder would carry the PBS national schedule A and Bprograms, along
with a high definition television program. While HBOand other programmers will
be using the General Instrument's DigiCipherII technology, PBS will be using
the non)consumer DigiCipher Itechnology and those digital signals are not
compatable with the othersystem.

	Other users of Telstar 401 will include ABC and Paramount, forrelays of such
programs as " Star Trek" and Entertainment Tonight".
A second satellite is to launched in early 1994, and a third (to beused as a
spare) is scheduled for orbit in late 1994 or early 1995.

	The NBC Network has acquired the entire capacity of the Ku)bandSBS)4
satellite. NBC will use the satellite on an occasional)use basisuntil
September, 1994, when the network will have full)time access.SBS-4 was launched
in 1984 and carries ten 20-watt Ku-band
transponders at 77 degrees west longitude.  Hughes operates the
satellite in an inclined geosynchronous orbit, enabling it to use
less fuel with north-south station keeping.  SBS-4 is expected to
provide service until 2004. \v\	
	NBC has also signed an agreement with GE Americom Communicationsfor Ku-band
satellite capacity aboard its GE-1 satellite.  Capacitywill be used from 1996.
Like the SBS-4 transponders, NBC will use GE-1transponders for feeds and
program distribution.

	NBC has also increased its interest in American Television
Network, a partnership that produces health and medical programmes
aimed at consumers and physicians. NBC plans to transform the
network into a 24-hour cable channel at a later stage. 


	Non)Video Signals

	Communications satellites carry much more than TV signals. Thereare also
telephone channels, transmissions by international newsagencies, stock market
reports, commodity news, and hundreds of radionetwork relays.

	There are two main kinds of audio signals. Audio subcarriers areextra signals
transmitted along with the video signal. The videoinformation on a satellite
transponder typically occupies the space 0*4.2 MHz. Subcarriers are added at
frequencies higher than the video.Usually they will be on 6.2 or 6.8 MHz, but
any frequency between 5 and8 MHz can be used.

	There are more than 70 audio only signals available on NorthAmerican
satellites. Here are a sample:


Satellite/Channel		Program				   Frequency(ies)

Spacenet 2/3			Voice of America			5.92 MHz

Spacenet 2/4			SUR Radio (Spanish)			5.8

Spacenet 2/7			Spanish Christian Radio 		5.94     

Spacenet 2/20			AFRTS Radio           		7.4

Satcom 2R/1			ANA Arab Net				6.8

Satcom 2R/7			Project Saturn Global		5.8

Satcom 2R/18			Radio Tropical (French)		7.6

Satcom 2R/23			Christian Music Network		6.2   7.6

Spacenet 3/2			Nebraska Public Radio		5.76  5.94

Spacenet 3/9			Modern Country				5.76  5.94

Spacenet 3/15			KLON)FM (Jazz/NPR)  		5.58  5.76
              			Radio Sedeye Iran			6.17

Spacenet 3/21			Let's Talk Radio			5.8

Galaxy 3/22			KGAY Denver           		7.46 
					(off the air, Sept, 1993)
\v\Galaxy 4/8			Hispanic Radio Broad. Net.	7.75  7.93

Galaxy 4/20			WCBS New York				7.4

Anik E2/16			CBC Radio East				5.76  5.94
					CBC Radio Atlantic			6.12  6.3
					Voice Print)Reading Service	7.44

Anik E2/20			CBC Radio East French		5.4   5.58


Anik E2/22			CBC Radio Pacific			5.76  5.94
					CFMI)FM					6.8
					CBC Radio News B.C.			7.36


Anik E1/17			Radio France International    5.41  6.12

Galaxy 5/18			WSM Nashville				7.38  7.56

Galaxy 5/22			CNN Headline News			7.56

Satcom C5/24			KSKA)FM Anchorage/NPR		7.38  7.56


	"Let's Talk Radio" is a program about radio and television onSpacenet 3
transponder 21, using the 6.2 MHz subcarrier (daily at 6:00PM)1:00 AM Eastern
Time). There are programs about satellites, amateurradio, shortwave listening,
and computers. 

	The satellite and cable station C)Span carries broadcasts from theAmerican
Congress. C)Span also has two special audio channels. Onerebroadcasts BBC World
Service 24 hours a day, the other carries avariety of international
broadcasters, including Deutsche Welle, RadioJapan, "As It Happens" from the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, andRadio Sweden's program "Sweden Today". 

	"Sweden Today" is carried on Saturdays at 9:30 AM Eastern Time.Other
broadcasters are the Voice of America daily at 1:00)8:00 PM,Radio Havana Cuba
at 8:00 and 11:00 PM, Deutsche Welle during the weekand Radio Japan weekends at
10:00 PM, and China Radio International atmidnight. Radio Japan is carried
weekdays at 6:00 AM, and programs fromthe Canadian Broadcasting Corporation are
at 8:00 AM.

	C)Span has been on transponder 24 on the Galaxy 3 satellite at93.5 degrees
West. BBC World Service uses the subcarrier at 5.4 MHz.The international
broadcasters are on 5.22 MHz.

	KGAY, a new radio network for gays and lesbians, moved fromSpacenet 3R to
Galaxy 6, transponder 17, using the audio subcarrier at7.48 MHz. However it
stopped satellite relays in September, 1993, andit is uncertain if it will
return.

	The Becker Satellite Network provides a common channel to avariety of
eccentric programmers. According to "Popular Communications"magazine, it's a
place where would)be pirate broadcasters can reachlisteners legally. Among the
programmers are the former pirate RadioNew York International, the Satellite
Information Service, the JohnnyLightning Show, the World Jazz Federation, and
DBI Satellite RadioTalk. The Becker Satellite Network is on Spacenet 2,
transponder 7,\v\audio 7.5 MHz.

	Project Saturn Global is to be the world's first all educational24 hour
international satellite radio network. Regular broadcasts toNorth America were
due to begin in January, using the Galaxy 5satellite, transponder 7, audio
subcarrier 5.80 MHz. Programs willoriginate from Los Angeles at 16:00 hrs
daily. 

	Worldwide coverage is planned for April, 1993. The dailyprogramming is drawn
from an audio library of more than 2000 programs,aimed at all ages, with
subjects ranging from fairy tales to computertechnology. Programs are to be
repeated every eight hours toaccommodate global time zones, and will include
hourly educationalnews. 

	The World Radio Network, which carries programs from NPR and manyinternational
broadcasters over an Astra transponder to Europe, isstarting a similar
multi)lingual service to North America. The servicewill be on an audio
subcarrier of SCOLA on ASC)1, transponder 23.Broadcasts are to officially begin
on January 1, 1994, but testtransmissions may start on December 15, 1993. Radio
Sweden will beamong the international broadcasters relayed to North America.

	There are several digital satellite radio services in the UnitedStates:

	Digital Cable Radio transmits to American and Mexican subscribersand cable
systems on Satcom C3, transponder 9. Launched in May, 1990,DCR was the first
digital cable audio service marketed in the UnitedStates. DCR currently
provides 28 CD)quality radio channels. On May 1stthis is increasing to 56. DCR
says that additional music, information,news, talk and foreign language
channels are set to be introduced,along side additional commercial formats
(background music) forbusiness users. DCR hopes to provide 250 channels within
a few years. 

AA	DCR plans to expand into Canada and is currently seekingregulatory approval.
DCR has long)term plans to launch the service inEurope, the Far East and parts
of Latin America.

	Another service called Digital Music Express, or DMX, is availableto more than
10 million cable subscribers in the United States. Itoffers themed channels of
various types of music without the need forDJs, jingles, or commercials. The
DMX decoder, manufactured byScientific Atlanta, displays information on the
music being played,such as the name of the artist, song and album title,
composer, andchart position. 

	International Cablecasting Technologies Inc. has signed a USD 20million
contract with Spar Communications Group for the supply ofdigital audio
receivers that will receive DMX's coming 120 channelservice by DBS satellite.

	DMX initially started with a 30 channel offering, but the companyis in the
middle of an aggressive service and geographical expansionprogramme.  With the
new receivers, customers can tune into 120 20KhzCD-quality music channels at
the touch of a button. The new offeringwill be initially restricted to the
North American marketplace, and itwill enable the company to expand its
business music offering, DMX forBusiness, which provides commercial-free,
DJ-free music to stores,offices and factories.\v\
	A 75 cm antenna will be used to receive broadcasts throughout theUSA and North
America from the SBS-5 satellite. Each receiver is fullyaddressable, enabling
special broadcasts to be sent to subscribers. There is also the capability to
offer generic corporate programming
broadcasts on under-utilised channels, switching in receivers asrequired. 

	The second system of sending audio by satellite is SCPC (singlechannel per
carrier). This involves dividing up an entire transponderinto individual
non)video channels. There is both FM and single sideband (SSB) SCPC. Most of
the high quality audio (and data) servicestoday use FM/SCPC. It is typically
used for network relays.

	The American non)commercial radio network National Public Radiohas 16 audio
channels on Galaxy 6, on transponders 2, 3, and 4 (whichare used for many other
SCPC services as well, such as NPR's rival,American Public Radio. The BBC World
Service is carried for some 8hours a day on an APR SCPC channel.

	There are special SCPC receivers, but SCPC can be monitored with asatellite)TV
receiver and a continuous coverage scanner or VHF)UHFcommunications receiver,
although the quality may be less than with adedicated SCPC receiver. Some
(older) TVRO receivers have intermediateor downblock frequencies at 70 or 134
MHz. If this signal is available,a scanner or VHF)UHF receiver can be used to
monitor the frequencies 18MHz to either side of these channels on appropriate
transponders. 

	On more modern TVRO set)ups, a splitter can be installed in thecable from the
LNB to the satellite receiver, and the extra output canbe fed through a DC
block to an FM scanner that covers the LNB's 950*1450 MHz range.

	Universal Electronics has developed the first consumer)priced SCPCdecoder,
which can be attached easily to an ordinary satellitereceiver. Universal sells
the SCPC)100 for USD 400, plus shipping. Moredetails from: Universal Radio,
6830 Americana Parkway, Reynoldsburg,Ohio, 43068, USA.

	SSB/SCPC includes many digital services offering news or businessinformation.
Fine tuning will reveal many radioteletype (RTTY) signalswhich can be monitored
with the proper RTTY interface. 

	Many satellites carry telephone services, One single transpondercan hold 9000
telephone channels. These services can be monitored byhooking an SSB
communications receiver to the 0)4.2 MHz output of aTVRO receiver, if this is
available. The telephone services, onsatellites such as Satcom 5 and Galaxy 2,
can usually be found bytuning the SSB receiver between 3720 and 4180 MHz.

	Radio Netherlands is using PanAmSat (PAS)1) to broadcast to LatinAmerica and
the Caribbean, but this is a digital audio signal (64 kb/sin a 10 kHz audio
channel). This Ku)band signal is downlinked inFlorida and uplinked on C)band to
receiving stations in the Caribbean. 

	IBM, NBC, and a company called NuMedia are to test a system of"news on demand"
delivered via satellite. The system, which would becalled NBC Desktop News,
would allow people to scan lists of headlinesusing personal computers and
recall the stories that interest them. Itinvolves text, graphics, video and
sound extracts in a multimedia PC\v\system. 
AA
AA
\\	North American DBS

	Most North American satellite television has been in the C)Band,which is
really intended for professional relays and not for homeviewing. Many American
TVRO enthusiasts have added extra low noiseblock amplifiers for Ku)Band,
however. The NBC network, for example,has stopped using C)Band, and can be
found only in the Ku)Band, on theK)2 satellite.

	There are also several plans for European)style direct broadcastsatellites
(DBS) to North America, using the Ku)band. The firstproposals came in early
1990, when General Electric announced a jointventure with 9 major cable
operators to deliver 10 channels ofprogramming using medium power in the
Ku)band. 

	The service, called PrimeStar, began in November, 1990, using theK)1 satellite
stationed at 85 degrees West. It now uses 12 transponderson the satellite.
Three of the channels are pay per view, the othersso)called Super Stations, and
include the Family Channel, the NashvilleNetwork, and Japan's NHK. Other
services include PrimeAudio (digital
audio and radio) and a range of news services delivered as data to
the desktop including X*Press X*Change and X*Press X*Press
Executive, provided by X*Press Corp.

	General Instrument Corp. has signed an agreement with Primestar to
upgrade the DBS service with GI's DigiCipher digital video
compression technology for all channels carried on the satellite.
Up to 70 channels may be included by the end of 1994.

	Primestar Partners is a joint venture between many US cable
companies, including TCI, Time Warner, Cox and Comcast, and GE
American Communications.

	Hughes Communications and United States Satellite Broadcasting arestarting a
DBS system, called DirecTV. Two satellites would be able tocarry up to 150
channels, including regular cable channels,pay-per-view networks, and high
definition television services.

	The first DirecTV satellite, DBS)1, was launched from FrenchGuiana on December
17, 1993. Tests will begin in January, 1994 andreceiving equipment going on
sale in April. A second satellite will belaunched in June, 1994. There will be
separate services from USSB andHughes' DirecTV. Together they will offer 100
subscription channels and50 more pay)per)view channels, using digital
compression techniques.

	Both satellites will be located at 101 degrees West, and willdeliver news,
sports, movies, and other programming to American homesequipped with 45 cm (18
inch) antennas. Receiving systems will cost USD700 plus installation. The cost
of subscribing to 100 channels will bearound USD 50 a month.

	Among the broadcasters lined up for DirecTV are several channelsfrom Turner
Broadcasting: CNN International, CNN, Headline News, TNT,Cartoon Network,
Superstation TBS, and Turner Classic Movies. Otherbroadcasters signed up
include the USA Network, the Sci)Fi Channel, theNashville Network, Country
Music Television, Discovery, the LearningChannel, E! Entertainment, the Family
Channel, Courtroom TelevisionNetwork, The Weather Channel, Playboy TV, The Golf
Channel and TheTravel Channel. 
\v\	There are pay)per)view agreements with Paramount, Sony, MGM,Disney, and
Columbia Tristar. Around 50 PPV films will be carried onthe 150 channel system
once launched.

    USSB has announced that their programming lineup contains 14premium feeds
(HBO 1, 2, and 3, Cinemax 1 and 2, and Showtime 1 and 2,East and West in all
cases) and six or seven basic channels (MTV, VH)1,Nickelodeon, Comedy Central,
E! Entertainment, All News Channel).
	
	The Federal Communications Commission has awarded direct broadcast satellite
orbital slot assignments and channel frequencies to twocompanies called Direct
Broadcasting Satellite Corporation andDirectsat. DSBC has been assigned 11
transponders at both the 61.5degrees and 175 degrees West orbital slots, with
DSAT receiving 10transponders at 119 degrees West, one at 110 degrees West and
11 at 175 degrees West. Final launch approval is to be granted by the FCC
byMarch, 1994.

	The FCC hopes competition from DirecTV and other DBS ventures willprovide
much)needed rivalry for cable systems, nearly all of whichoperate as local
monopolies. The cable companies are concerned aboutthe potential competition.
There are fears of a different kind inCanada, where the intrusion of 150
channels of south)of)the)bordercultural imperialism has led to DirecTV being
dubbed "The Death Star",referring to the "Star Wars" films. There will be two
Canadian channelson DirecTV, however. The CBC is providing an international
version ofits Newsworld service, while the privately)owned Power
Broadcastingwill provide the Northstar Channel, a compilation of the best
ofCanadian drama, arts, and entertainment.

	Other observers have asked what people will do with 150 or 500channels. Large
chunks, of course, will be allocated to pay)per)viewblockbuster movies, with
the same film starting every 20 or 30 minutesso viewers will never have to wait
longer than that. One DBS expert haspointed to the proliferation of magazines
on store racks, and suggestedthat the magazine racks of the future will be
satellites offeringscores, or even hundreds, of narrow channels appealing to
variousinterests. There are already cable systems in the United Statesoffering
500 video channels.

	The cable giant TCI has ordered two Tempo DBS satellites, to belaunched in
June and October 1996. Each will feature 32 high)poweredtransponders at 107
watts, switchable to 16 transponders at 200+ watts.

\Z\II. Latin America and the Caribbean

	Latin American signals can be found on a number of satellites,such as
Intelsats K, 601, and 513. There are extensive relays fromEurope as well on
Panamsat and more planned on Hispasat. Many LatinAmerican services from North
America are on Spacenet 2 (the women'schannel GEMS TV on transponder 2, Canal
SUR on transponder 4, and Canalde Noticias NBC on transponder 5), and Galaxy 4
(Telemundo ontransponders 8 and 14).

	Mexico's Galavision is on Galaxy 1 transponder 20, and Univisionon transponder
6.

	Canal SUR (Sistema Unida de Retransmision) is a coded satelliteservice in
Spanish and Portuguese from Latin America to North America.It includes
broadcasts from stations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile,Colombia, Ecuador, and
Peru. 

	There are two new services to Spanish)speaking people in theUnited States,
both using the DigiCipher digital compression system. 
MTV started its MTV Latino service in October, 1993 from Miami.Initially MTV
Latino is reaching 1.9 million homes in 10 Latin Americancountries and some
parts of the United States, but hopes to eventuallyreach 3 to 5 million homes.
MTV Latino is on the Satcom C3 satellite.MTV hopes its sister channels, VH)1
and Nickelodeon, will follow intoLatin America. 

	The American pay)film channel Home Box Office has also launched
aSpanish)language version of its regular schedule of movies,
originalprogramming, and sports to major Hispanic markets in the United
States."HBO en Espanol" will be available soon in San Francisco,
Houston,Albuquerque, El Paso, and San Diego. 

	When consumer DigiCipher receivers become available in mid to late1994, it is
expected that these and other DigiCipher services will besold to home dish
owners.

	The Caribbean Satellite Network went on the air in December,
1992,appropriately following the 500th anniversary of the arrival
ofChristopher Columbus in that part of the world. Signals are uplinkedfrom
Miami to the Galaxy 3 satellite, transponder 14. Programingconcentrates on
music, but there will also be documentaries based onlife in the Caribbean,
news, and situation comedies. European relaysare also planned.

	Turner Television's Cartoon Network began broadcasts in May toLatin America,
transmitting to 300,000 subscribers mainly in Argentina.The channel will
eventually have three audio subcarriers for English,Spanish, and Portuguese.
CNN International and TNT Latin Americabroadcast coded on Spacenet 3
transponder 16.

	Fox has recently launched a small cable channel to South America.

	Brazil has its own satellite, Brasilsat, which was launched in1986 and is
located at 70 degrees West. This C)band only satellitecarries a variety of
Brazilian stations, all in M)PAL.

	Mexico's two Morales satellites are listed above. Mexico isfollowing up with
two new communications satellites called Solidaridad,built by Hughes. Besides
Mexico, they will have spot beams to cover the\v\southern United States, the
Caribbean, and South America. The newsatellites will have three times the
capacity of the two Morelossatellites. Solidaridad)1 was launched on November
19, 1993, and willbe placed at 109 degrees West. Solidaridad)2 is scheduled for
launch in1994.

	Radiotelevision Espanola's Canal Iberoamericano Television willuse Spain's
Hispasat satellite to reach Latin America. 18 hours a dayof broadcasts from
Valencia are to begin by the end of this year. 

	BBC World Service Television, Reuters, and Telemundo arenegotiating on
creating a 24 hour Spanish)language news service forLatin America, Spain, and
the United States. Telemundo currentlyoperates a Spanish language channel on
the Spacenet 2 satellite whichby satellite and cable reaches 85 percent of the
Hispanic households inthe United States. The new channel would broadcast from
Miami bysatellite and cable, and would start later this year. 

	Grupo Televisa and the the largest cable operator in the US, TCI,have agreed
to form a joint venture to provide cable, pay)TV, andmulti)channel television
to Mexico and other Latin American countries. 

AA	Two major Christian shortwave broadcasters, HCJB in Ecuador, andTrans World
Radio, have announced they are launching a 24 hour LatinAmerican satellite
radio network. The target date was November 20, 1993and they'll be using
digital technology to reach a network of affiliatestations from the US)Mexican
border to the southern tip of Chile. 



\<\III. Europe and Astra

	The Soviet Union's Ghorizont was the first TV satellite overEurope. While, the
Ghorizont satellites operate mainly in the C)Band,Western European satellites
use several sections of the Ku)Band fordifferent purposes. The Ku1)Band
10.9)11.75 GHz is, like the AmericanC)Band, intended for professional relays
and not for home viewing. Homereception was originally intended for the Ku2
(DBS) Band 11.75)12.5GHz. The Ku3)Band 12.5)12.75 GHz, or Telecom Band, is also
not intendedfor home viewing.

	The first Western European satellites were from Eutelsat, which ismade up of
the PTTs and Telecom administrations of Western Europeancountries. The
intention was that individual countries would offer homeviewing to their own
residents over high)powered DBS satellitesoffering only a few channels. Astra,
operated by Luxembourg's SES, haschanged all that. 

	Because Astra's several medium)powered satellites are at the samespot in the
sky, viewers with relatively small fixed antennas (60)90cm) can tune into all
available channels. 

	Here are the channels on Astra 1A, 1B, and 1C (as of Jan., 1994):

Channel				Transponder Frequency   Language

1    RTL 2           			11.214 GHz	German
2	RTL Plus					11.229		German
3	TV3 Sweden (D2)MAC)			11.244		English/Swedish
4	Eurosport          			11.258		English/German/Dutch
5	Vox                           11.273		English/German
6	SAT 1					11.288		German
7	TV1000 (D2)MAC)			11.303		Swedish/English (pay)
8	Sky One					11.317		English (pay channel)
9	Teleclub					11.332		German (pay channel)
10	3)SAT					11.347		German
11	FilmNet+ (to Scandinavia)	11.362		English (pay channel)
12	Sky News				    	11.377		English
13	RTL 4					11.391		Dutch
14	Pro 7					11.406		German (partly pay)
15	MTV Europe (northern Eur.)	11.421		English
16	Sky Movies Plus			11.435		English (pay channel)
17	Premiere					11.464		German (pay channel)
18	The Movie Channel			11.479         English (pay channel)
19	ARD                 		11.493         German
20	Sky Sports				11.509         English (pay)
21	DSF (Sports)				11.523		German 
22	MTV Europe (southern Eur.)	11.538		English
23	UK Gold            			11.553         English (free)coded)
24	JSTV						11.567         Japanese
25	N3      					11.582         German 
26	Sky Gold/TV Asia         	11.597         English/Hindi (pay)
27	TV3 Denmark (D2)MAC)		11.611         Danish
28	CNN International             11.626         English
29	n)tv (News)                  	11.641         German
              30	Cinemania  		          11.656         Spanish (pay channel)
31	TV3 Norway (D2)MAC)			11.670         English/Norwegian
32	Documania 				11.685         Spanish (pay channel)
33   ZDF						10.964		German
34   UK Living					10.979		English (pay channel)\v\35   Children's/Family
Channel     10.994		English (pay)
36   Sogecable                     11.009         Spanish (pay channel)
37   Cartoon Network/TNT			11.023		Eng/French/Swed/Nor.
38	QVC (Shopping)				11.038		English (pay)
39   West 3					11.053		German
40   Sogecable                     11.068         Spanish (pay channel)
41   Discovery/Country Music TV    11.082		English (pay)
42   Bravo/Adult Channel           11.097		English (pay)
43   MDR						11.112		German
44   Galavision				11.127		Spanish (Mexico)
45   BFS 3					11.186		German
46   Nickelodeon				11.156		English (pay channel)
47   Sky Sports 2				11.171		coming (pay)
48	SWF 3					11.186		German
63   FilmNet Movies				10.921		English (pay channel)
64   RTL 5					10.936		Dutch (pay channel)


	Odd)numbered transponders carry horizontal polarization, while theeven
transponders are vertically polarized. All channels are PAL unlessD2)MAC is
indicated. Pay channels use a variety of scrambling systems,although the
emerging standards seem to be Videocrypt for PAL channelsand Eurocrypt M for
D2)MAC. The Sogecable Spanish transponders (30, 32,36, and 40) use Nagravision.

	Until Sky Sports 2 comes on the air, transponder 47 will be usedto provide
Astra technical information. First reports said Sky Sports 2would begin
operation on February 1, 1994, but now it is said thatBritish Sky Broadcasting
could wait for improved technology to launchthe channel on a pay)per)view
basis. 

	China News Europe uses transponder 35 during the night for uncodedbroadcasts
from the Far East, in parallel with Eutelsat II)F1.

	Astra uses the Ku1)Band for medium)powered signals, with 16)18channels per
satellite. Astra 1A, 1B, and 1C are currently in orbit at19.2 degrees East.
Astra 1A and 1B carry mono channel sound on 6.50MHz, with many stations
carrying stereo as well on 7.02/7.20. MostAstra 1C outlets have stereo)only TV
sound on 7.02/7.20. Astra 1Ccarries two transponders, 63 and 64, which cannot
be received onordinary receivers, although LNBs are being produced that will
coverthese frequencies. They are part of the channel plan for latersatellites,
using 10.7 to 10.95 GHz, and intended for cable systemsrather than home
viewers.

	British Sky Broadcasting, the company formed by the merger of SkyTelevision
and British Satellite Broadcasting in 1990, is a major userof the Astra
satellites. BSkyB's channels are Sky News, theentertainment channel Sky One,
Sky Movies Plus, the Movie Channel, SkyMovies Gold, and Sky Sports. Sky Sports
2 is planned for transponder47. Sky News is uncoded, while the other channels
are videocryptencoded. A number of other channels are included in BSkyB's
Multi*Channels Package: Discovery, Bravo, UK Gold, UK Living, CMT,
QVC,Children's Channel, Family Channel, and Nickelodeon. 

	FilmNet is offering viewers in the Netherlands and Belgium thechance to
subscribe to a five-channel package of Astra channels,scrambled in Videocrypt.
The package, called "MultiChoice", willconsist initially of three "basic"
channels and two premium channels.Discovery, The Children's Channel and Country
Music Television will\v\form the basic package, with The Adult Channel and
FilmNet forming thetwo premium channels. It is hoped that such channels as
Nickelodeon,Nick)at)Nite, TV Asia, and RTL)5 may join the package.

	FilmNet will utilise its out-of-band Astra transponder (10.920GHz) for
"FilmNet: The Complete Movie Channel" as part of the package.
While the basic channels and The Adult Channel will continue using the
conventional flavor of UK Videocrypt, FilmNet will broadcast inVideocrypt
Europe, also known as Videocrypt 2. Videocrypt 2 receiversare compatible with
existing Videocrypt broadcasts, although it isunderstood that Videocrypt 2
transmissions will not be decoded
by existing (UK type) Videocrypt decoders, even with the correctsmartcard.

	By early 1994, the package is to be extended to Portugal, andeventually will
be available to other European countries, including theCzech Republic,
Slovakia, Hungary and Scandinavia. Larger Europeancountries such as Germany and
France are expected to be catered for bythe soon-to-be-announced Sky/Pro7 deal.
Rumors suggest that Sky couldsoon begin selling its channels, including Movies
and Sports, on aEurope-wide basis. 

	Nickelodeon is owned by MTV's parent, Viacom. The Nick)at)Niteservice is due
to share the transponder, beginning next year. MTV'smusic channel for somewhat
older audiences, VH)1 is expected to jointhe Multi)Channels package in 1994,
probably taking over MTV'stransponder 15. At that time, both MTV and VH)1 will
probably encrypt.

	Eurosport has ceased providing a French audio soundtrack on itsAstra and
Eutelsat service. Viewers wishing to watch in French willneed to subscribe to
the Canal Plus package to receive "TV Sport", theFrench version of Eurosport.

	Landmark Communications Inc, the US media conglomerate which ownsThe Weather
Channel and The Travel Channel, has confirmed that it is tolaunch The Travel
Channel in Europe in early 1994. The developmentplans include Britain, the
Benelux, and Scandinavia." There are reportsThe Travel Channel may use Astra
transponder 24 during the day andearly evening, before JSTV takes over the
channel.

	Other Astra hopeful is the Afro)Caribbean Satellite Channel, whichwants to
broadcast for 6 hours nightly after midnight, carrying films,sports, general
entertainment and news. This channel hopes toeventually reach the emerging
African cable market.

	There are a number of other Astra hopefuls, but the threesatellites are now
completely filled. Now that NBC has bought andrevamped Super Channels, a move
to Astra would be welcomed by many.There are, however, reports that some
current broadcasters could bedeparting from the high)cost Astra transponders.
Eurosport may leaveAstra to rely solely on Eutelsat, while the German channel
Vox is indanger of closing due to low viewership. The 4 Scansat channels,
theTV3 transmissions to Sweden, Norway, and Denmark and TV1000, mightleave
Astra in favor of the Swedish Space Corporation's new Siriussatellite (the
former Marco Polo 1), to be positioned together withTele)X at 5 degrees East.

	Astra 1D, with a further 18 channels, is due for launch in thethird quarter of
1994. It will carry 18 more transponders in the FixedSatellite Service range.
The 1D transponders and frequencies are:\v\
49	10.714 GHz 			57	10.832
50	10.729                   58	10.847
51   10.744 				59   10.852
52	10.758				60	10.876
53	10.773                   61	10.891
54   10.788				62	10.906
55	10.803				63	10.921 (also on Astra 1C)
56  	10.817				64	10.935 (also on Astra 1C)

	As with the other Astra satellites, odd)numbered transponders havehorizontal
polarization, while even transponders have verticalpolarization.

	Astra 1D will also carry digital programming in the BSS band ontransponders 65
to 82 between 11.720 and 12.051 GHz.

	Thames Television has taken options on two transponders on Astra1D. Thames
hopes to launch another two themed channels on these
transponders, although it has not yet announced any details. Germany's 
ZDF has also announced it has booked a transponder on Astra 1D. TheChinese
Channel, with programming aimed at the Chinese community inEurope, hopes to
offer a subscription service over Astra 1D.

	Astra 1A, 1B, 1C, and 1D together will provide 64 channels of DTH(direct to
home) programming to viewers in Europe. 

	Astra 1E is to be launched early in 1995 and will carry 18transponders with 85
watts each (compared to 45 watts on Astra 1A). Thesimilar Astra 1F is to be
launched in 1996. Astra 1E and 1F willprovide 40 transponders for digital
broadcasting services. 1E willoperate in the 11.7 to 12.1 GHz range, while 1F
will cover between 12.1and 12.5 GHz.

	The use of digital compression techniques will allow thetransmission of eight
to ten channels per transponder, and British SkyBroadcasting is reported to be
planning to use several to transmit pay*per)view films, where a film would be
starting every 20 minutes.

	Other European Ku1)Band satellites include:

Intelsat 602		63   degrees East	Italy/Iran
Intelsat 604		60 	degrees		4 Turkish transponders
Statsionar 5		53   degrees		EBU Moscow
DFS 2 Kopernikus	28.5	degrees		German broadcasters
DFS 3 Kopernikus 	23.5 degrees       	German transponders
Eutelsat I)F5		21.5 degrees		feeds
Eutelsat II)F3		16   degrees		Middle Eastern, Eastern Europe
Eutelsat II)F1		13   degrees	  	many European programs 
Eutelsat II)F2		10   degrees		Italian, Iberian, Turkish
Eutelsat II)F4	      7   degrees        Turkish/Greek/EBU 
Intelsat 512		 1   degree  West	Norwegian channels/Israel
Statsionar 11		11   degrees		WTN Moscow
Statsionar 4	     14   degrees	     Reuters TV
Intelsat 515   	18   degrees		Norwegian channels
Intelsat K		21.5 degrees		trans)Atlantic feeds
Intelsat 601  		27.5 degrees		European (BBC, CMT, Wire TV)
Intelsat 603		34.5 degrees		EBU Sarajevo
PAS 1     		45   degrees		mostly feeds (PAL and NTSC)
\v\

	Eutelsat

	The Eutelsat II satellites are higher)powered than theirpredecessors, and
approach Astra in strength. The most interestingEutelsat is II)F1 at 13 degrees
East, which includes the followingtransponders:

Eurosport			10.970 GHz		Sports
Super Channel		10.987			Radio: BBC World Service
Der Kabelkanal		11.052			D2)MAC, German
Viva				11.006			German music videos
TV5 Europe         	11.080			French
RTL 2         		11.095		     German 
Deutsche W/World N  11.161			Radio: DW, VOA
TRT              	11.181              Turkish
MBC				11.554			Arabic, Radio: Vatican
Euronews			11.575			Multi)lingual sound
interStar  		11.596			Turkish
Emirates Dubai TV	11.638			Arabic, some English
MTV Europe		11.658			
FilmNet (Holland)	11.678			Digital sound
VisEurope	          12.521			coded newsfeeds
Maxat			12.560			newsfeeds
France Telecom		12.585			HD)MAC tests


	Germany's international radio broadcaster, Deutsche Welle, hastaken over the
facilities of the Berlin)based American TV station RIAS,and is broadcasting on
Eutelsat II)F1 with three two hour blocks after16:00 hrs European time on
11.161 GHz. The first 90 minutes of eachblock is in German, followed by 30
minutes in English. There are alsoSpanish programs. Managing Director Dieter
Weirich announced at theInternationale Funkaustellung in Berlin on August 30,
1993 thatDeutsche Welle TV will be expanding to 24 hour a day service from
1994.However, the expansion from 16 hours at present would only be possibleif
ARD and ZDF agree to work together.
 	
	The American government's World Net uses this same transponder 
at 10:00)15:30 hrs European time daily. The transponder also carriesradio
programs from both Deutsche Welle and VOA Europe. It's hard tosay what will
happen to World Net if Deutsche Welle goes to 24 hours.World Net was kicked off
the French TV5 transponder for exactly thesame reason.

	The European Broadcasting Union's all)news station, Euronews, wenton the air
at 14:00 hrs on January 1, 1993 from Eutelsat II)F1 at11.575 GHz. There are no
presenters, instead the news footage isaccompanied by soundtracks in five
languages on various audiosubcarriers: German on 6.65 Mhz, English on 7.02,
French on 7.20,Spanish on 7.38, Italian on 7.56, (and probably Arabic on 7.74)
MHz.

	The American TV network NBC has bought Super Channel, which wasstarted as a
"Best of British TV" channel (as UK Gold later became),but was forced to
abandon this because of opposition from the BritishActors' Union. A controlling
interest was bought by an Italian musicvideo company, and Super Channel has
carried an unfocused mix of musicvideos, B movies, and news programs. NBC has
cut back on the videos,and has added such programs as the "Today Show", the
"NBC Nightly\v\News", "The Tonight Show", and other news programs from NBC and
itsfinancial channel CNBC. 

	Super Channel is carrying three hours of Far Eastern programmingevery night,
at 2:00)5:00 AM European time. Called Europe)ChinaSatellite TV, as well as
China News Europe, this brings togetherreports from Hong Kong, China, and
Taiwan, in English, Cantonese, andMandarin. The channel hopes to move to Astra,
initially keeping thesame broadcast hours and times, and sharing with a UK
Astra channel -possibly The Family Channel or UK Living. The channel will will
alsothen change its name to "Chinese News and Entertainment".

	Emirates Dubai TV is mostly in Arabic, but there are Englishnewscasts at 15:00
and 18:00 hrs British time. It uses half the formerFilmnet transponder, and
there are reports the other half, 11.678 GHz,may be used to launch a European
version of the Sci Fi Channel in early1994.

	Turning to the other Eutelsats:

	II)F3 (16 degrees East) carries largely programs from the MiddleEast and
Eastern Europe. Egypt's ESC is on 11.178 GHz, and thatcountry's new foreign
language channel, Nile TV International, has beentesting with extremely low
power on 11.146 GHz. Other Middle Easternbroadcasters are RTV Marocaine on
10.970, Turkey's TGRT on 11.090 andHBB on 11.615, and TV7 Tunisie on 11.658.
Telepace from Rome, whichcarries daily programming from the Vatican, is on
11.575 GHz. Albania'sTV Shqiptar uses this transponder between 17:30 and 20:30
hrs Britishtime. 

	Eastern European broadcasters include Croatia's HTV on 10.986 GHz(shared with
Eurostep), Polonia TV on 11.080, Hungary's Duna TV on11.596, and Polsat on
11.675.

	Eutelsat II)F2 (10 degrees East) is a largely "Latin" orMediterranean
satellite. Spain's TVE is at 11.149 GHz. Italy's RAI hastwo transponders
(10.972 and 11.095). The Portuguese RTP Internationalservice is at 11.658 GHz.
RTP also transmits to Africa on Ghorizont 12at 40 degrees East, at 3.925 MHz.
There are three private Turkishstations: A)TV on 10.986, Show TV on 11.575, and
interStar on 11.617.The American AFRTS uses the B)MAC system for broadcasts on
11.175.

	Eutelsat II)F4 (7 degrees East) has Greece's ET1 on 11.174 GHz andPIK from
Cyprus at 11.141, Turkey's Kanal 6 at 11.162 and a new serviceare on 11.578,
with Serbia's RTS Sat Beograd at 11.536 GHz. There arealso EBU feeds using the
sound)in)synch system on a number oftransponders.

	Greece's ERT has announced the establishment of a satellitechannel called ERT
International. As it is to broadcast to Europe,North Africa, and the Middle
East, it will probably use Eutelsat. 

	The venerable Eutelsat I)F1 is being redeployed to improvecoverage of Russia
and the CIS. Both 36 and 50 degrees East have beenmentioned as new locations.
But Eutelsat II)F5 is due to be launchedsoon, and is to be located at 36
degrees East.

	Eutelsat II-F6 is to be co-located with Eutelsat II-F1 at 13degrees east, now
dubbed the "Hot Bird" position. The satellite, due tobe launched in the second
half of 1994, will be able to relay 16\v\additional high)powered television
channels. Eutelsat is already takingbookings on the satellite. According to a
statement issued by Eutelsat,in order to guarantee that the 13 degrees east
position "can bereinforced as Europe's principal slot for television for cable
anddirect)to)home reception, the new satellite will only carryentertainment
services at prime)time (17:00-01:00 CET)." 
 
	Eutelsat plans a third satellite for 13 degrees east, called "HotBird Plus".
It would be launched in early 1996, with either 14 or 20110 watt transponders.
This would mean reception in most of Europe with40 cm antennas. "Hot Bird Plus"
will enable Eutelsat to meet demandsfor digital television, offering such
future options as interactivetelevision, video)on)demand, pay)per)view, etc. 

	The problem for Eutelsat is "too little too late". Next year itwill have 29
transponders at 13 degrees East. Today, Astra has 50 atits position, and by the
time the first "Hot Bird" launches, Astra willalready have the equivalent of
"Hot Bird Plus" in orbit, the Astra 1Dsatellite, which will be followed in 1995
by Astra 1E, and thefollowing year by Astra 1F.

	Eutelsat's only chance is that it may be able to serve EasternEurope better
than Astra, and there might be a greater demand forsatellite capacity than
Astra can meet. Also, Eutelsat's transpondershave a wider bandwidth (36 MHz)
than Astra (25 MHz). This means moredigital channels can be squeezed in.


	Intelsat

	Another interesting satellite (which may be virtually vacated bythe end of the
year) is Intelsat 601 at 27.5 degrees West. This hascarried CNN, Discovery,
Bravo, and the Children's Channel, all of whichhave moved to Astra. What's left
are broadcasts from the BritishParliament (11.095 GHz), Country Music
Television Europe (24 hours on11.509, using a weak half transponder), the
shopping centerentertainment channel Wire TV (coded) and The Learning
Channel(uncoded) sharing a transponder (11.505), Sweden's D2)MAC coded
FilmMax(11.665), the SAVE coded British forces SSVC (11.563), and BBC
WorldService Television (10.995). 

	In January, 1993 BBC World Service Television switched to D2)MAC,encoded in
Eurocrypt M. Subscriptions are available from TV Extra inMotala, Sweden, at
telephone number +46)141)355)12. The system uses thesame smartcards as Filmnet,
and in Scandinavia and the Benelux, Filmnetis handling subscriptions.

	Intelsat 603 was launched in 1990, but a mistake put it into auseless orbit.
In May, 1992 the American space shuttle Endeavoursuccessfully captured the
satellite and relaunched it into its properorbit (34.5 degrees West). This
carries C)band feeds to Greenland andthe Canary Islands. EBU feeds from
Sarajevo are on 11.475 GHz.

	Intelsat)K at 21.5 degrees West is intended to relay signalsacross the
Atlantic. Intelsat's first Ku)band only satellite, itcarries 32 high)powered
transponders, which can be directed to NorthAmerica (as far as the Midwest),
Europe (as far east as Greece), andselected parts of South America.  All beams
use 11.45-11.7 GHz, while11.7-11.95 GHz is also used to the Americas, and
12.5-12.75 GHz toEurope. \v\
	Feeds from North America to Europe can be found on 11.531, 11.558,11.593,
11.652, and 11.681 GHz, using both horizontal and verticalpolarization. The CBS
"This Morning" program, for rebroadcast by SkyNews, is carried weekdays
12:50)14:00 hrs European time on 11.558vertical. When NBC took over Super
Channel, relays of many shows,including the "The Today Show" and programming
from CNBC could be foundon 11.616 GHz, although this has recently disappeared.


	PanAmSat

	Alpha Lyracom, now known as Panamsat, has taken on the massiveIntelsat,
seeking to provide an alternative international satelliteorganization. PAS)1,
launched in 1988, is located at 45 degrees West,carries the American Galavision
to Europe, along with several channelsfor newsfeeds. 

	PAS)2, to be launched in May, 1994, will be placed above thePacific. PAS)3, to
be launched in late 1994, will complement PAS)1 from43.5 degrees, reaching
farther into Scandinavia and the Middle East.Other parts of the world are to be
covered by PAS)4 and 5 above thePAS)4 will be placed over the Indian Ocean at
72 degrees East in March,1995. M)Net and the South African Broadcasting
Corporation have alreadybooked transponders.


	Eastern European Satellites

	A Soviet Ghorizont was the first television satellite over Europe.However, the
Soviets concentrated on the C)band, while Europeansatellite broadcasting has
used the Ku)band. But there are in fact Ku*band transponders on the Ghorizont
(or Statsionar) satellites used bythe former Soviet Union. Each of the
Ghorizonts over Europe, at 53degrees East, 14 degrees West and 11 degrees West,
has a transponder at11.525 GHz. The Ghorizont at 53 degrees East carries EBU
feeds, 14degrees carries Reuters TV (formerly Visnews), while 11 degrees
hasWTN.

	The Russian satellite ZSSRD at 16 degrees West carries two veryinteresting
Ku)band transponders, using to relay signals from the MIRspace station. Data
information is carried at 11.375 GHz, which canoften be seen as flashing lines
on the screen. More interesting is thetransponder at 10.835 GHz, which carries
video from MIR in clear SECAM.Unfortunately this frequency is slightly below
that covered by mostsatellite receivers.

	MIR video has also been reported from the Ghorizont at 11 degreesWest on
11.525 GHz.

	While the dishes used for Ku)band monitoring in Europe aregenerally too small
for C)band reception, the introduction of newsensitive C)band LNBs has made it
possible to receive the very strongRussian C)band signals using dishes as small
as 1.5 meters. The Russiansignals on 3.675 GHz at 40.5 degrees East and 14
degrees West areperhaps one hundred times stronger than other C)band signals in
Europe.
	Molniya satellites use a highly elliptical orbit that makes itpossible to
reach high latitudes out)of)reach of geostationarysatellites (which would be
too low on the horizon). These carry\v\satellite broadcast television, relaying
Double II (the East Siberianversion of the second TV program) on 3.875 GHz.

	The first of Russia's new Ekspress satellites, which will replacethe current
Ghorizonts, is to be in orbit at the end of the year. Thesatellites will better
be able to maintain the correct inclination inorbit, and will carry 24
channels, as well as four back)uptransponders.

	Antenna Hungaria, the Hungarian telecommunications company, saysthat it plans
to launch a 16-channel European satellite called"Domestic" in 1996, offering
Eastern Europe's first commercialsatellite service.


	Telecom Band

	There are 8 European satellites currently using the 12.5)12.75 GHzTelecom
band:

	DFS Kopernikus 2    28.5 degrees   		Germany
	DFS Kopernikus 3    23.5 degrees			Germany
	Eutelsat II)F3		16   degrees 			European
	Eutelsat II)F1		13   degrees			European
	Eutelsat II)F2		10   degrees			European
	Telecom 1C		 3   degrees			France
	Telecom 2B		 5   degrees West		France
	Telecom 2A		 8   degrees			France

	To Astra's disappointment, French TV broadcasters have not bookedany Astra
channels. Instead, France is using its own Telecom 2Asatellite, at 8 degrees
West, for direct to home broadcasting. TheFrench government having surrendered
its demand for D2)MAC programming,eleven channels are now using Telecom 2A.
Eight are in coded SECAM, andthree in widescreen D2)MAC. 

	The SECAM channels are coded in Nagravision: MCM on 12.543 GHz,Paris 1:ere on
12.564, Planete Cable on 12.585, Cine Cinefil on 12.626,Canal Plus on 12.648,
Cine Cinemas on 12.666, Eurosport France on12.710, and Canal Jimmy on 12.732
GHz. France 2 is broadcasting in D2*MAC on 12.606 GHz. Widescreen D2)MAC with
Eurocrypt is being used byCanal Plus on 12.522, Cine Cinefil on 12.564, and
Cine Cinemas on12.689 GHz.

	Telecom 2B (5 degrees West) carries the following uncoded channelsin SECAM: M6
(12.522), France 2 (12.564), Arte (12.606), Monte CarloTMC (12.658), and TF1
(12.689). Cine Cinemas on 12.669 GHz usesEurocrypt and D2)MAC. Luxembourg's RTL
Television began relays of itsFrench service in October, 1993 on 12.732 GHz. 

	Telecom 1C has now been moved to 3 degrees East, where it is usedfor feeds in
PAL, D2)MAC, and B)MAC.

	France's TF1 is to launch a satellite and cable news channelduring the first
half of 1994. 

	Germany's DFS Kopernikus 3 has taken over from Kopernikus 1 at23.5 degrees
East. Kopernikus 1 has moved to 33.5 degrees East.Kopernikus 2 is operating
from 28.5 degrees East.
\v\
	European DBS

	Direct Broadcast Satellites (DBS) are intended to beam a few (2)5)high)powered
signals directly to homes in a single country. Viewersrequire dish antennas
less than 30 cm in diameter. A number of DBSsatellites have been orbited above
Europe:


	Tele)X			 5   degrees East   	Sweden
	Thor				 0.8 degrees West		Norway 
	Olympus			18.8 degrees       		Western Europe (gone)
	TDF)1 and TDF)2	19   degrees     		France 
	TV)SAT 2			19.2 degrees     		Germany
	Hispasat 1A and 1B	30   degrees			Spain
	Marco Polo 1		31   degrees     		Britain (for sale)


	Astra's hopes to attract Spanish customers are threatened bySpain's two
Hispasat direct broadcast satellites. Hispasat 1A waslaunched on September 10,
1992 and carries 5 DBS channels and 18transponders in other parts of the
Ku)band. Most will be directedtowards Spain and the Canary Islands, but two
will be aimed at theAmericas. 

	TVE International is in the clear on 12.160 GHz, with feeds andsports on
12.588. Tele 5 is coded in Nagravision on 12.631 GHz. Thethree Spanish radio
stations Antena Tres, Ole, and Serie Oro are alsoon Hispasat. 

	This satellite, however, has antenna problems, displacing thefootprint towards
the north, which hopefully will be rectified nowfollowing the launch of
Hispasat 1B on July 22, 1993. Five newtelevision channels are to begin
broadcasts. The first of these are togo on the air in December, a cultural
channel called Canal Clasico andTeleporte with exclusively sports programs, to
be operated RTVE in theclear. Later they will be joined by Telesat 5, Antena 3
Television Sat,and an as yet unnamed outlet from Canal Plus, all of which will
beencrypted.

	The European Space Agency announced August 26, 1993 that it hasterminated the
four-year-old mission of its troubled Olympus satellite,11 months ahead of
schedule. The ESA says it sent the satellite to alower, non-operational orbit
where it would not collide or interferewith other satellites. Olympus had
started spinning and did not haveenough fuel to return to its proper
geostationary orbit. Olympus hadcarried broadcasts from Italy, an Irish sports
channel, and relays ofnews from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and was
also used totest advanced communications technologies, including
high-definitiontelevision. Two years ago the satellite's position had to be
correctedafter it went into an uncontrolled drift around the world.

	A DBS war has been fought between Sweden and Norway. Both theSwedish Space
Corporation and Norwegian Telecom bid on Britain's MarcoPolo 2 satellite. The
Norwegians won, and moved the satellite to 0.8degrees West, renaming it Thor.
They are offering a package of CNN(11.785 GHz), Eurosport (11.862), Children's
Channel/Discovery(11.938), FilmNet (12.015), and MTV (12.092) to Scandinavian
viewers,with hopes of increasing to 15 channels by co)locating other
DBSsatellites at that position. \v\
	Intelsat 512 is already at this position, (with the entertainmentchannel TV
Norge in clear PAL on 11.016 GHz) and is to be replaced witha stronger
satellite, adding to the offerings at this position.FilmNet, in fact, sold its
85 percent ownership of Tele)X back to theSwedish Space Corporation and moved
its transmissions to Thor.

	However, having won the satellite battle, the Norwegians lost thestandards
war. They chose two of Europe's most obscure standards, D*MAC and Eurocrypt S,
available to few satellite viewers. (The exceptionis FilmNet, which uses D2)MAC
and Eurocrypt S.) Writing in the magazine"Elektronikvaarlden", Sweden's
satellite guru, Bertil Sundberg, referredto the Thor coding as "Norwegian
Harakiri". Finally, after severalmonths, on December 16, 1993 the Norwegians
backed down and all Thorchannels now use D2)MAC (itself a doomed standard, if
less obscure thanD)MAC). It is unclear if the Norwegians have also abandoned
theiralligance to the even more obscure Eurocrypt S system.

	The potential audience is in Finland and northern Norway andSweden, which are
outside the main Astra footprint. FilmNet isdistributing subscription cards for
Thor.

	Norway's approach to satellite broadcasting has been eccentric. 
Initially, most of the country's satellite channels were on Intelsat512 at 1
degree West. Besides the Norwegian public broadcaster NRK,these are the new
Norwegian terrestrial commercial station TV 2, theprivate TV Norge, and Swedish
Television 1 and 2, which are uplinkedfrom Oslo for use by cable systems in
Spitsbergen and on North Sea oilplatforms.

	In late 1992, these channels cloned themselves onto Intelsat 515at 18 degrees
West. Moving away from 1 degree West was a bit strange,since it happened at
exactly the same time Norway was moving Marco Polo2/Thor to that same position.

	Bertil Sundberg in "Paa TV" magazine has pointed out that there arenow
Norwegian programs on 5 satellites at 4 different positions. Theyuse a
bewildering array of standards: PAL, D2)MAC in both Eurocrypt Mand Eurocrypt S,
and D)MAC. This, he says, may explain why 80 percentof satellite systems in
Norway are motorized.

	The Norwegians are the traditional target of Swedish jokes. ButNorwegian
satellite broadcasting seems to have become a Norwegian jokein itself.

	Sweden's Tele)X carries Sweden's TV4 (12.207 GHz) and TV5 Nordic(12.475), both
in clear PAL, and Norway's NRK (12.332) in D)MAC. Swedenhas fought back, and in
December, 1993 NSAB, owned by the Swedish SpaceCorporation and Swedish Telecom,
succeeeded in buying the second MarcoPolo satellite, apparently after Norway
tried to block the sale. Thesatellite, renamed Sirius, is to be moved to
Tele)X's position, where arival package to Scandinavia is to be marketed.
Together the twosatellites should carry 7 channels. The first broadcasts are
expectedto begin in March, 1994. The Sirius frequencies are identical to
thoseon Thor.

	At the instruction of the Nordic prime ministers, the publicservice
broadcasters of Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Iceland havepresented a proposal
for a joint Nordic television channel. Thebroadcasters say the Nordic satellite
channel "Nordstjaarnan", or "North\v\Star", could be on the air by the end of
1994 or early 1995 (however,the Nordic Council's Ministerial Council has vetoed
allocating funds tothe project). The fifth Nordic country, Denmark, is not
participatingin the project because the channel would not be available to
allviewers. The Danes would prefer to strengthen the current
Nordvisionco)operation. 

	Despite this Spanish/Nordic activity, the DBS idea seems to havebeen made
obsolete by improving technology. Viewers want more than 2)5channels and they
want channels from other countries (which is why bothFilmnet and Norwegian
Telecom are now talking about co)locating severalDBS satellites). A 60 cm Astra
dish that can deliver 16, 32, or 48channels is more desireable than a 30 cm
dish with access to only 3stations.

	With the failure of the British BSB system on Marco Polo (it wasbought out by
Sky in 1990), the decision of the French government notto build a third direct
broadcast satellite, to follow up the existingTDF)1 and TDF)2 satellites (after
the breakdown of TDF)1), and thefailure of Olympus, the DBS idea seems to be
virtually dead. FrenchMinister for Post, Communications, and Space Paul Quiles
has announcedthe satellites will be replaced in due course by a new generation
ofspacecraft. In the meantime, France is concentrating on its medium*powered
Telecom satellites. 

	Similarly, Germany's Kopernikus (and the German channels on Astra)have proved
to be more popular than TV)SAT. 

	Eutelsat's answer to Astra was to be Europesat, a series of high*powered
satellites being called "second generation DBS" all located at19 degrees West.
However, that project has been abandoned in May, 1993in favor of the "Hot Bird"
position at 13 degrees East.


	C)Band

	New C)band LNBs have made possible C)band reception on smallerdishes. However,
over Europe just about the only signals that can bepicked up on standard
Ku)band dishes of less that 1.5 meters are fromthe Russian Ghorizonts, which
are much stronger than other C)bandsignals. The American TDRS A4 at 41 degrees
West has recently begunrelaying a station from Denver, Gala Americana, in PAL
on 3.920 GHz. Aradio station has been heard on 5.80 MHz.


	HDTV and Digital Technology

	The European Commission has abandoned its plans for the forcedintroduction of
the D2-MAC standard, as a step towards the futureintroduction of a system
called HD-MAC for high definition television.Instead broadcasters are moving
directly towards digital HDTV, afteryears of conflict over D2)MAC.

	A memorandum of understanding to work together to find a commonstandard for
digital HDTV has been signed by a group of satelliteoperators, broadcasters,
manufacturers and regulators. The group, knownas the European Launching Group
for Digital Video Broadcasting project,comprises of 85 members including one
Japanese electronics firm.

	NTL and Eutelsat have completed joint tests to prove the viability\v\of
wideband satellite transponders for carrying both conventionalanalog FM
television signals and the new digitally compressed TVsignals of the NTL System
2000. A single Eutelsat transponder was shownto be able to carry simultaneously
either a single FM channel and fourdigitally compressed channels or a total of
eight digital channels atbroadcast quality.

	The compatibility, within one transponder, of a high power analogtransmission
and lower power digitally compressed signals means thatoperators can more
easily migrate from analog to digital, with itsattractive cost reductions.
Eutelsat says that its widebandtransponders are especially attractive since the
premium for theadditional bandwidth is much less than the extra cost of a
wholetransponder.


	Radio

	There are more than 100 radio channels on European satellites,using audio
subcarriers, slowly approaching the number in NorthAmerica.

	Astra is a radio pioneer, with many interesting stations, both newchannels and
established international broadcasters. There are musicstations, such as Sky
Radio, Super Gold, and Quality Europe FM. SunriseRadio is a commercial medium
wave station in London for the Indiancommunity there, now on satellite as well.

	Radio Sweden is on the Sky Movies Gold transponder at 11.597 GHz,audio
subcarrier 7.74 MHz. Our satellite schedule is also transmittedover the Tele)X
direct broadcast satellite, using the TV4 transponderat 12.207 GHz, audio
subcarrier 7.38 MHz. Radio Sweden is also part ofthe World Radio Network
package of English language broadcasters onAstra.

	Also on the Sky Movies Gold transponder (at 7.38 MHz) is RadioAsia, which
broadcasts over Spectrum Radio in London. Spectrum's fullschedule is to be
broadcast over this channel in the near future.

	Another shortwave broadcaster on Astra is Swiss RadioInternational, on the
Teleclub transponder at 11.332 GHz, audiosubcarrier 7.2 MHz. SRI is changing
its programming to fit satellitebroadcasts by April, 1994. SRI is planning to
expand to four satellitechannels, three relaying the national services in
German, French, andItalian, complemented by SRI programs in those languages.
The fourthwould be a 24 hour English channel, consisting of a repeated
andupdated 2 hour program block.

	According to one report, some British local ILR stations are toappear on the
Discovery and Bravo transponders in the near future.

	MTV reportedly may be planning to join up with the Americannetwork ABC in
launching a pan)European radio channel. 
	
     List of Radio stations broadcasting from the ASTRA satellites
     -------------------------------------------------------------

    Station                  Frequency     Subcarrier(s)    TV station
    )))---------------------------------------------))))))))))))))))))
    Deutsche Welle           11.229        7.38             RTL-Plus\v\
   Deutsche Welle           11.229        7.56             RTL-Plus
    Deutschlandfunk          11.288        7.38/7.56        Sat.1
    Deutschlandf.Int.        11.288        7.74             Sat.1
    Deutschlandf.Int.        11.288        7.92             Sat.1
    Sky Radio                11.317        7.38/7.56        Sky One
    Radio 538                11.317        7.74/7.92        Sky One
    Swiss Radio Int. 	    11.332	   7.20             Teleclub
    Radio Eviva              11.332        7.74/7.92        Teleclub
    Virgin 1215              11.376        7.38/7.56        Sky News
    Super Gold               11.376        7.92             Sky News
    RTL Radio 1              11.391        7.38/7.56        RTL)4
    RTL Radio 2              11.391        7.74/7.92        RTL-4
    Star*Sat Radio           11.406        7.38/7.56        Pro-7
    Radio-Ropa               11.406        7.74/7.92        Pro-7
    RMF                      11.420        7.74/7.92        MTV)Europe
    Quality Europe FM        11.435        7.38/7.56        Sky Movies     ASDA
storecast FM        11.435        7.74             Sky Movies     MDR Sputnik
             11.464        7.38/7.56        Premiere
    Sunrise Radio            11.479        7.38             Movie Ch.
    Holland-FM               11.479        7.56             Movie Ch.
    Sudwestfunk 3            11.493        7.38/7.56        ARD      
    Q)CMR                    11.509        7.38             Sky Sports
    United Christian Broad.  11.509        7.56		     Sky Sports
    World Radio Network      11.538        7.74             MTV)Europe
    BBC WS			    11.553        7.38			UK Gold
    BBC Radio 4              11.553        7.56             UK Gold
    BBC Radio 1              11.553        7.74             UK Gold
    BBC Radio 5              11.553        7.92             UK Gold
    NDR 2				    11.582	   7.38/7.56        N3
    NDR 4                    11.582        7.74/7.92        N3
    Radio Asia			    11.597        7.38             Sky Gold	
    Radio Sweden             11.597        7.74             Sky Gold 
    CNN Radio                11.626        7.92             CNN
    Cadena  Principales      11.686        7.38             Cinemania
    Cadena Dial              11.686        7.56             Cinemania
    Cadena SER               11.686        7.74             Cinemania


	The World Radio Network relays English language programs from anumber of
broadcasters. The current schedule (British local time) is:

	00:00  NPR "All Things Considered"
	01:30  Radio Netherlands
	04:00  Radio Canada International
	04:30  Vatican Radio
	05:00  BBC "News Hour" and "Europe Today"
	06:00  NPR "All Things Considered"
	08:00  Radio Australia
	09:00  Radio Korea
	10:00  Radio Moscow
	10:30  Radio Netherlands
	11:30  Voice of Israel
	12:00  Radio France International
	13:00  NPR "Morning Edition"
	15:00  Radio Finland
	15:30  WRN info
	16:00  Radio Australia
	17:00  Radio Moscow
	17:30  Radio Netherlands
	18:30  Radio Telefis Eireann (Ireland)\v\	19:00  NPR "Talk of the Nation"
	21:00  RADIO SWEDEN
	21:30  BBC "Europe Today"
	22:00  NPR "All Things Considered"
	
	The schedule varies slightly on weekends.

	Astra apparently wants to use the 6.50 MHz audio subcarriers onthe 1C
satellite for digital radio or business data transmissions. Astra is also
carrying out research into satellite radio broadcasting,to small antennas,
without the need for a receiving dish. This wouldapparently be introduced with
the upcoming Astra 1D and 1E satellites.Presumeably this is DAB)Satellite, also
called BSS)Sound, allocatedfrequencies by last year's World Administrative
Radio Conference.

	There are also a number of interesting radio stations on EutelsatII)F1:

     BBC WS		     10.987		7.38	        	Super Channel
	BBC External   	10.987		7.56		   	Super Channel
	France Info   		11.080		7.02			TV5 Europe
	France Inter		11.080		7.20			TV5 Europe
	Radio Victor		11.080		7.38			TV5 Europe
	Radio Free Europe	11.095		7.74/7.92/8.10	RTL)2
	Deutsche Welle		11.163		7.02			Deutsche Welle
	Deutsche Welle		11.163		7.20			Deutsche Welle
	VOA Europe		11.163		7.38/7.56		Deutsche Welle
	Deutsche Welle		11.163		7.74			Deutsche Welle
	Radio Finland		11.163		8.10			Deutsche Welle
	Bonn Rundfunk		11.163		8.28			Deutsche Welle
	World Radio Network 11.554		7.74			MBC
	Super FM			11.596		8.10			Interstar
	Radio Contact		11.638		7.02			FilmNet Plus
	Radio Contact		11.638		7.20			FilmNet Plus
	Radio 10 Gold		11.678		7.92/8.10		FilmNet Plus
	Digital Radio		12.542		digital		

	Radio Free Europe uses separate audio subcarriers for news feedsin Czech,
Baltic languages, and Polish. VOA Europe is now being carrieddigitally on
Eutelsat II)F4. The analog relay on II)F1 will continueuntil the end of 1994.
VOA Europe is also carried on Intelsat 601 at27.5 degrees West, and Intelsat
505 at 66 degrees East. The servicewill also soon be available on Intersputnik
1 and 2.

	The World Radio Network relays Vatican Radio in many languages andRadio Canada
International in Russian. NPR relays were here before theAstra service began.

	The digital radio channels are the following French stations:Europe 2, FIP,
Fun Radio, Modulation France, Nostalgie, ad NRJ.

	The Swedish news agency TT has been heard on Swedish Radio sinceits pioneer
days. TT is now making hourly newscasts available tocommunity radio stations
around Sweden, over Tele)X, using the TV5Nordic transponder at 12.475 GHz,
audio 7.56 MHz. Radio Sweden uses7.38 MHz on the TV4 transponder. The
Copenhagen local station The Voiceis on 7.74/7.92 on the same transponder.
Curiously, Radio Sweden andthe Voice have appeared on the same audio
subcarriers on the TV5 Nordictransponder, for no apparent reason. Some of
Sweden's new commercialradio stations may be networked as well over Tele)X.\v\
	 	Other audio subcarriers can be found on:

DFS Kopernikus 3 (German channels, DSR)
Eutelsat II)F3 (Morocco, Poland, Croatia, Hungary, Egypt and Tunisia)
Eutelsat II)F2 (Spain, Portugal, Turkish, RL/RFE)
Eutelsat II)F4 (Serbian)
Intelsat 512, 515 (Norwegian channels)
Telecom 2B, 2A, TDF)1/2 (French channels)
TV)Sat (DSR as on Kopernikus 3)
Intelsat 601 (BBC WS and British Forces Broadcasting)
Hispasat (Spain)

	Taiwan's Voice of Free China says that within the next couple ofyears they
would be coming to Europe via satellite, through the help ofDeutsche Welle.


	Digital Radio on Satellite

	Digital Satellite Radio (DSR) is a German)developed technology,providing CD
quality satellite radio. Unfortunately DSR cannot bebroadcast terrestrially,
which means it will be replaced when DigitalAudio Broadcasting (DAB) starts in
the next couple of years. Currently16 DSR channels in German are on DFS)3
Kopernikus at 23.5 degrees Easton 12.625 GHz and on TV)Sat at 19.2 degrees West
on 11.977 GHz.
 
	A number of international broadcasters have taken part in tests ofDSR on
Eutelsat II)F3 (16 degrees East). Transponders 26 (11.078 GHz)and 34A (11.650
GHz) have been used, and among the 8 channels are Voiceof America, Radio France
International, Deutsche Welle, and BBC WorldService. 

	Two digital satellite radio services from the United States areexpanding into
Europe. Digital Music Express, or DMX, is alreadyavailable to more than 10
million cable subscribers in the UnitedStates. Thirty themed channels of
various types of music would be madeavailable to European subscribers, without
the need for DJs, jingles,or commercials. The 30 types of music would include: 

	US hottest hits, European hottest hits, contemporary jazz, classicjazz,
country, big band, world beat, blues, reggae, golden oldies,heavy metal,
classic rock, chamber music, and opera. 

	Signals are being relayed from DMX's Atlanta studios to a C)bandtransponder
aboard Intelsat 601, before being cross)linked to a Ku)bandtransponder. Signals
would be downlinked by cable operators. 

	DMX, has launched a new pan-European consumer marketing campaign,which will be
initially run in the UK, Denmark and Norway before beingrolled out throughout
Europe as distribution contracts are signed withcarriers. British Sky
Broadcasting is reported to be close to signingan agreement with to relay DMX
over Astra from June 1994. 

	The DMX decoder, manufactured by Scientific Atlanta, displaysinformation on
the music being played, such as the name of the artist,song and album title,
composer, and chart position. 

	Another service called Digital Cable Radio currently provides 56CD)quality
radio channels to North American subscribers and cable\v\systems. DCR plans to
bring 68 themed radio channels to Europe, underthe name Music Choice Europe. A
number of cable operating anddistribution agreements have already been signed
in the Netherlands,Britain, and Switzerland, giving it a potential subscriber
base inexcess of three million homes.

	Digital Audio Broadcasting, or DAB, will replace FM in the nextfew years. The
World Administrative Radio Conference held in Spain inJanuary, 1992 approved
frequencies for satellite DAB, which would bereceivable on small portable
receivers. Various countries, includingSweden and Britain, have been conducting
test broadcasts of DAB, priorto its expected introduction in 1995. The BBC used
the Olympussatellite for DAB tests as well.


	Other Non)Video Signals

	We have had no reports yet of European SCPC. But a number of newsagencies are
using satellites to distribute their signals. BBCMonitoring is now subscribing
to the Russian ITAR)TASS news agency, viaa data link on Intelsat 601. The BBC
will receive information fromMoscow in English and Russian, replacing the
previous intricate systemof communications cables.
 

\2\IV. Middle Eastern Satellite Broadcasting

	The Middle East is an expanding area for satellite broadcasting,centering
around the Arab League's Arabsat satellites and Turkey'sbroadcasts to Turkish
emigrants in Western Europe and the newlyindependent countries of Central Asia.

     Arabsat 1B is drifting eastward and has reached at least 43degrees East.
Both Arabsat 1B and 1C have 25 C-Band transponders, aswell as one strong S-Band
transponder around 2600 MHz. 1B has been usedto relay programs from Morocco,
Saudi Arabia, Oman, and Mauritania. Onetransponder has been used for Inter-Arab
news, co-ordinated via Tunis.

	Arabsat 1C (31 degrees East) is now the main Middle Easternsatellite, and
includes: 

MBC  					2.560 GHz			PAL
Canal France International	3.811			PAL
CNN International			3.829			PAL
Libyan feeds				3.867			PAL
UAE TV1 Dubai				3.956			PAL
Saudi Arabia TV1			3.977			SECAM
RMT 1 Morocco				4.008			SECAM
UAE TV2 Dubai				4.033			PAL
Saudi Arabia TV2			4.051			SECAM
Oman TV					4.063			PAL
Mauritanian TV				4.081			SECAM
MBC						4.107			PAL
Jordanian TV				4.144			PAL
Egyptian Space Channel		4.164			PAL
KTS Kuwait				4.180			PAL

	The Middle East Broadcasting Centre (MBC) is a London)based Arabicchannel.
Although it is Saudi)backed (the chairman is the brother)in*law of Saudi
Arabia's King Fahd), the channel was briefly banned inSaudi Arabia for its
bare)headed female announcers. Paralleltransmissions continue to Europe on
Eutelsat II-F1. The station isworking together with the Saudi)financed Arab
Network of America in theUnited States.

	The MBC is to launch a package of three to six subscriptionchannels for the
Middle East in 1994. These would include a familychannel, a general
entertainment channel, and a movie channel. Thecurrent MBC Europe channel would
become MBC1, a free service offeringnews and teasers for the other channels.
NTL's digital compressionsystem is to be used for the package, which would be
carried on anArabsat.

	The Kuwait Satellite Channel carries a news bulletin in English ataround 19:30
UTC. BBC World Service TV is planning on starting a 24hour Arabic service to
the Middle East from Arabsat in April, 1994.

	The new Arabsat 1D at 20 degrees East has carried test signals ontwo
transponders (3.760 and 3.840 GHz) for "ART ) Arabic Radio andTelevision".

	The Arab Space Communications Corporation has awarded a contractfor two new
Arabsats. The first would be launched in 1996. Besides 18C)band channels, and 2
S)band channels, they would also carry 12 Ku*band transponders, making reception
possible with 60 to 80 cm dishes.\v\
	Eutelsat II)F3 is the main satellite for broadcasts from Arabiccountries to
North Africa and Europe. Tunisia's first satellitechannel, RTT (or TV7
Tunisie), is on 11.660 GHz. The new externalservice of Tunisian Radio is
carried on the subcarrier at 7.02 MHz(7.20 also reported). English is heard at
13:00 hrs, German at 14:00hrs, and French at 15:00 hrs. The international
service, RTCI,broadcasts mainly in French. 

	Morocco's RTM is on 10.970 GHz, with sound in Arabic on 6.60 MHz,Berber on
7.20, and a multi)lingual service on 7.38. The RTMInternational service in
Arabic uses 7.02, with RTM Morocco on 7.56.

	The Egyptian Space Channel is on 11.178 GHz, with radio stationson 7.02, 7.20,
and 7.38 MHz. The International Service Nile TVInternational, began low)powered
test transmissions on 11.156 GHz onOctober 10, 1993. Initial broadcasts are
between 17:00 and 19:00 hrsUTC, most in English. When the channel is officially
launched therewill be two hours in English and one hour in French daily. 

	Dubai launched its 24 hour "Emirates TV Dubai" satellite serviceto Europe,
North and Central America on December 6, 1993. Mostprogramming is in Arabic,
but there are newscasts at 15:00 and 18:00hrs British time in English.
Broadcasts to Europe are on  Eutelsat II)F1, while the Americas are reached
through Galaxy 7.

	Iraq is to launch the Iraq International Television station duringthe last
quarter of this year. Broadcasts are to be to Europe and NorthAfrica on
Eutelsat and to the Middle East on Arabsat and anothersatellite known as
"al)Jisr".

	Arabsat 1D at 20 degrees East is to carry four Lebanese channels:Future on
3.787 GHz, and ART with a sports channel on 3.788, anentertainment channel on
3.844, and a children's channel on 3.626 GHz.

	Intelsat 602 at 63 degrees East carries Iran's IRIB TV1 and TV2 onKu)band
10.990 and 11.150 GHz, and the American AFRTS on 11.470 GHz.

	Iran has announced it plans to broadcast six hours a day oftelevision to
Europe and Asia. According to the report "a number ofsatellites will be hired."

	There are Turkish channels on several Eutelsats: TGRT and HBB areon II)F3.
A)TV, Show)TV, and interStar are on II)F2. Kanal 6 and KanalMarket are on
II)F4. The Turkish State Television's TRT Internationalbroadcasts to Europe on
Eutelsat II)F1. There have been news bulletinsin English and German following
the Turkish news at 21:00 hrs Europeantime. 

	TRT began satellite broadcasting 4 channels to Central Asia onApril 1, 1992,
using Ku)band transponders on Intelsat 604 at 60 degreesEast (10.974, 11.138,
11.647, and 11.683 GHz). TRT hopes to reach asmany as 57 million Turkic
speakers in the 6 new Moslem states of theformer Soviet Union. 

	Turkey's first 16 transponder Turksat is due to be launched onJanuary 20,
1994, with a second satellite 6 to 12 months later. CNN hasapplied to lease a
transponder on Turksat. According to reports, Turkeyhas also reached agreement
to lease transponders to Kazakhstan,Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, and Georgia.
Presumeably, the 5 TRT channels\v\and the current 6 or more private Turkish
broadcasters will also findhomes on Turksat.

	Israel broadcasts from Intelsat 512 on 11.015, 11.174, and 11.590GHz. The
domestic Radio Israel uses 7.20 MHz and the internationalservice Kol Israel
uses 7.38 and 7.56 MHz on the 11.590 GHztransponder. Israel's Amos DBS,
carrying 6 or 7 Ku-Band transponders,is due to be launched, probably from
French Guyana, in 1994. 


AA
\\V. African Satellite Broadcasting

	In Africa, satellite broadcasting is expanding, particularly toSouth Africa.
European satellites can be monitored in southern Africa,and there are even
reports of reception of Astra (with a 4 meter dish)!An important satellite is
Intelsat 601 at 27.5 degrees West. WhileEuropean broadcasters use this
satellite for Ku)band transmissions, C*band is used to Africa. Broadcasters
include:

BBC World Service Television  3.650 GHz			PAL
Deutsche Welle/WorldNet       3.743 			PAL
Canal Horizons (French)		3.803			PAL
Canal France International    3.915 			SECAM
Algerian TV				4.003			PAL
CNN International 			4.048			PAL

	The BBC is encrypted using the IRDETO system, requiring a decoderfrom the
South African)based M)Net company, which shares thetransponder with BBC. (This
is in fact the same system used by theDutch RTL)4 on Astra, but known there as
Luxcrypt.)
	
	Sky News was due to start 12 hours a day of broadcasts to SouthAfrica,
beginning October 3, 1993 , using a relay from Intelsat.  

	The South African Broadcasting Corporation's external serviceshave changed
their name to Channel Africa. This includes both Radio RSAand a television
service on the Intelsat 605 satellite at 24.5 degreesWest, at 4.166 GHz. This
consists of African news, information, andeducational material in English and
French, weekdays at 12:00)13:00 hrsfor rebroadcast by stations in other parts
of Africa. The SABC intendsto move from the C)band to the Ku)band in 1994. 

     Intelsat 505 (66 degrees East) carries WorldNet/Deutsche Welle, aswell as
Zaire, South Africa's SAIS and Bop)TV, and France's CanalFrance International.
Intelsat 602 (63 degrees) carries South Africa'sM)Net and SABC.

	The international French)speaking channel TV5 Afrique is nowbroadcasting to
Africa via the former Soviet Ghorizont 12 at 40 degreesEast (on 3.730 GHz).
Besides TV5, Portugal's RTP International (3.930GHz) is on this satellite.
Unfortunately, Ghorizont 12 is in aninclined orbit, which means that Earth
stations must be able to trackthe satellite as it drifts in a "figure eight"
pattern.

	M)Net and the South African Broadcasting Corporation have bookedtransponders
on PAS)4, set to launch in March, 1995, for southernAfrica's first direct to
home broadcasting service. 

	The planned Afro)Caribbean Satellite Channel, which is to beginoperations
aimed at Europe, hopes to eventually reach the emergingcable systems of Africa.
The American Black Entertainment Network alsoplans to expand into the African
market.

\j\VI. Asia and the Pacific

     There are nearly 30 geostationary satellites in orbit above Asiaand the
Pacific. Five are former Soviet satellites, another five arefrom Intelsat. The
Intelsat satellites provide a variety of C-Bandservices. Intelsat 508 at 180
degrees relays in C)band Australia's NineNetwork and Network 10, as well as
Japan's NHK, and the American CNN,ABC, CBS, NBC, ESPN, and WorldNet/Deutsche
Welle. There's an RFO-Francerelay to Tahiti and WTN news feeds. In the Ku)band,
there aretransponders carrying Turner Broadcasting and Fuji TV.

     Intelsat 505 (66 degrees East) carries WorldNet/Deutsche Welle,and several
Chinese channels, as well as television from Malaysia.Intelsat 602 (63 degrees)
carries two channels from Thailand.

	Intelsat has relocated Intelsat 501 to 91.5 degrees East toprovide  expanded
coverage to the Asia)Pacific countries. 

	On October 22, 1993 the first of the new 7th generation Intelsats,Intelsat
701, was launched by an Ariane rocket. The satellite will beused to provide
services in the Asia-Pacific region from 174 degreesEast. The satellite is the
first of nine Intelsat 7's scheduled forlaunch before the end of 1995. 

     There are Ghorizonts at 80, 90, 96.5, and 103 degrees East. Eachhas 6
C-Band transponders, and the first three have experimentalKu-Band transponders
as well (presumably on 11.525 GHz). 

     The Soviet satellite Ekran at 99 degrees East carries atransponder on UHF
714 MHz. This is between Japanese channels 53 and 54and European channels 51
and 52, and is reported to be available allover Asia. This carries the Orbita
service from Moscow. India's firststate)wide cable network, Asianet in Kerala,
has booked another Ekrantransponder on 751 MHz (European UHF channel 56) to
relay a program inMalayalam to systems around the state. 


	Star)TV

     Asiasat)1, the first commercial satellite designed for Asiancountries, was
launched in April, 1990 by a Chinese Long March rocket.Located at 105.5 degrees
East, it carries 24 C-Band transponders, halfdedicated to a North Beam covering
northern Asia, the rest to a SouthBeam covering southern Asia. 

	Here are the channels on Asiasat:

Mongolian TV		3.760	North beam		SECAM
Pakistan TV		3.780	South			PAL
Star TV Sport		3.800	North			NTSC
MTV Asia                3.840   North                   NTSC
Star TV Sport		3.860	South			PAL
BBC WS TV Asia		3.880	North			NTSC
MTV Asia                3.900   South                   PAL
Star Mandarin TV	3.920	North			NTSC
BBC WS TV Asia		3.940	South			PAL
Star TV Plus		3.960	North			NTSC
Zee TV			3.980	South			PAL
Yunnan TV               4.040   North                   PAL
Star TV                 4.060   South                   PAL
CCTV4                   4.120   North                   NTSC
Myanmar TV (Burma)	4.140	South			NTSC

     The first pan-Asian satellite broadcaster, Star-TV, beganbroadcasts on
Asiasat in August, 1991. It is owned by Hong Kong'sHutchvision, which become
part of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporationmedia empire in 1993. Star)TV now
reaches at least 1.8 million homesfrom Asiasat 1. It includes 6 channels, 4 on
both beams (N/S):

     1) Star-Sports (3.80 GHz/3.86 GHz)
     2) MTV Asia (3.84 GHz/3.90 GHz)
     3) BBC World Service Television (3.88 GHz/3.94 GHz)
	4) Star TV (entertainment) (3.96 GHz/4.02 GHz)
     5) Mandarin TV (3.92 GHz) NTSC 
	6) Zee TV (3.98 GHz) PAL 

	Zee TV is Star's Hindi language channel to South Asia. The HongKong
authorities have also given permission for Star)TV to broadcast inCantonese.
This service will begin after the system's three year trialends.

	News Corporation is expected to begin new Star)TV pay channels.Star is
offering four subscription channels to Hong Kong's first cableTV network: Star
Asian Movie Channel, Star Movie Channel, StarChildren's Channel, and the Asian
News and Business Channel. Japan'sMitsui company, NBC in the United States and
Pearson plc, owner of the"Financial Times", are behind the 24 hour Asian News
and BusinessChannel. Presumeably these channels will also be carried on
Asiasat.

	News Corporation has tried to terminate the BBC's 10 year contract(after only
2 years) claiming that the BBC's planned Arabic servicefrom Arabsat would
overlap with Star. The BBC has blocked the attempt,but it is possible News
Corporation would like to carry its own SkyNews instead.

	At the annual meeting of News Corporation in October, 1993 RupertMurdoch
announced the splitting of Star)TV, into four divisions, oneeach for China,
India, Indonesia and the Middle East.

	Asiasat has signed a contract for an Asiasat)2, with an option fora further
satellite. Asiasat)2 will have 40 C)band transponders, and 9Ku)band
transponders at 100.5 degrees East. It would be launched inMarch 1995, and
would have an unprecedented footprint reaching fromTokyo to Berlin, and south
to Australia. 

	British Telecom has booked 5 transponders, Australia's NineNetwork another 10.
Deutsche Welle also plans to use Asiasat)2.


	Palapa

     The  main competition to the Star)TV service is on Indonesia'sPalapa B2P
satellite at 113 degrees East. CNN, ESPN, Home Box Office,the Australian
Broadcasting Corporation, and Hong Kong's TVB haveagreed to co)ordinate efforts
to broadcast their programs on onesatellite, initially B2P. CNN is on 3.840
GHz, ESPN on 4.042 GHz, bothin B)MAC. 

\t\	The Australia Television International service to Asia began onFebruary
17, 1993 via Palapa B2P. The programs, which are hoped toreach 30 Asian)Pacific
countries, include news reporting, specialinternational topics, Asian)Pacific
socio)cultural aspects, reports onscientific and technical developments, and
education. 

	TVB, which has an enormous library of Chinese language films, hasnot yet begun
transmissions on the satellite. 

	Asia's first business television channel began broadcasts onNovember 1, 1993
on the same satellite. Among the owners of AsiaBusiness News are Dow Jones, the
American cable giant TCI, TelevisionNew Zealand, and the Singapore Broadcasting
Corpation.  
	
	Canal France International is also broadcasting over Palapa B2P on3860 MHz.
The network beams a variety of programs including news,features, filmes,
debates, sports, and children's programs produced bythe main French channels
TF1, France 2 and France 3.

	B2P also provides television for Thailand, Malaysia, and thePhilippines as
well as Indonesia. 

	Hughes Communications has signed an agreement to build a thirdgeneration of
satellites for Indonesia, Palapa)C. The first twosatellites will be delivered
in July 1995 and January 1996, with anoption for a third, which expires in
1999. Each satellite will carry 30C)band and 4 Ku)band transponders, providing
coverage through)outsoutheast Asia and parts of China and Australia.
Arianespace has signeda contract to launch Palapa C1 in October 1995. It will
replace PalapaB2P at 113 degrees East, and will have an expected life of 14
years. 

	China's commercial satellite launch service has signed a contractwith Hong
Kong's APT Satellite to launch the 24 transponder Apstar)1satellite in June,
1994. The satellite will be made by Hughes, whichwill also make Apstar)2, due
to be launched a year later. The Starrivals on Palapa B2P are to move to
Apstar)1 after its launch.

	These services hope to move in to the lucrative Chinese market,which may be
difficult following the Chinese government's recentrestrictions on satellite
television.

	Another potential broadcaster to China is Australia's state-ownedmulticultural
broadcasting network, the Special Broadcasting Service orSBS. SBS is holding
talks with potential Asian and North Americanpartners to establish an
international satellite television service inseveral languages with English
subtitles. SBS currently broadcaststelevision and radio in 63 languages across
Australia. 


	India

     India began using the American ATS)6 satellite for ruraleducation, the
SITE experiment, in 1975. The first Insat satellite waslaunched in 1983. The
most recent, Insat 2)A, is at 74 degrees East,and three regional Indian
television channels have moved to it fromArabsat. Tamil Nadu programs are on
4.115, Karnataka on 4.135, andMaharashtra on 4.175 GHz. Insat 2)B was launched
in July, 1993, andplaced at 93.5 degrees East. A new package of 5 channels, in
an effortto compete with Star)TV, which has made tremendous inroads in
India,was inaugurated on Indian Independence Day, August 15th.\v\
	A survey in January indicated that 3.3 million Indian homes werewatching Star
and Zee TV. Another survey revealed that satellite TV hasreached 4 percent of
India's half a million villages, where English*language soap operas are the most
popular programming.

	A  group of non)resident Indian businessmen has started antherHindi)language
channel, Asian TV Network, from Ghorizont 19 (96.5degrees East), on 3.800 GHz.

	India's first state)wide cable network, Asianet in Kerala, hasbooked a
transponder on the Russian Ekran satellite at 99 degrees Easton 751 MHz
(European UHF channel 56) to relay a program in Malayalam tosystems around the
state. Other transponders may be booked on the (nowdormant) Ekran satellites at
48, 64, 84, and 95 degrees East.

	A new 9 channel satellite television service to India is to bebegin on January
1, 1994. The nine channels carried by the jointAmerican)India network are to
cover: religious and spiritualprogramming; politics; children's programming,
entertainment, music andmovies; sports; medicine, health, fitness and sex
education; businessand economy; and development, environment, and women's
issues, science,and technology. Broadcasts are to be over two satellites, the
RussianStatsionar 21 at 103 degrees East, and Asiasat.

	The Insat 2)C satellite, to be launched in 1995, will bringDoordarshan
programs to viewers in the Middle East and Asia. It willcarry more than the
eight transponders on 2)B, including Ku)bandtransponders.


	Japan

     Japan has been a pioneer in direct satellite broadcasting, as
might be expected from its consumer electronics industry. The world's
first direct broadcast satellite was Japan's BS-2. It's successors, BS-
3A and BS)3B, are positioned at 110 degrees East. They each carry three12 GHz
transponders, and one wide-band data channel. Programs areprovided by the
Japanese public service broadcaster NHK and thecommercial JSB.

	BS)3B also broadcasts High Definition Television using theJapanese Hi)Vision
system on 11.880 GHz.
     
	On February 26, 1992 an Ariane rocket put into orbit Japan'sSuperbird B)1 at
162 degrees East. Superbird carries six new satelliteTV stations, including CNN
International and MTV. This satellitecarries 19 Ku)band transponders and 10
Ka)band transponders, and can bereceived on 20)24 cm dish antennas.

	Three television stations have started new satellite channels,bringing the
number of Japanese satellite channels to 9. The three areSVN Space Vision
(entertainment and sports), Let's Try Life Design(hobby and cultural programs),
and Asahi Newstar (news anddocumentaries). At present there are only 58,000
satellitesubscriptions in Japan, far short of the targeted 200,000. One
reasonfor the sluggish demand is the high cost of equipment.
Currently,antennas and receivers cost around 200,000 yen. New receivers,
cheaperby tens of thousands of yen, will be marketed later this year. 
\v\	BBC World Service Television also plans to broadcast its 24 hournews and
information channel to Japan, together with Japanese partnerthe Nissho Iwai
Corporation. While programs will be sold to terrestrialbroadcasters in Japan,
the service will also include direct to homebroadcasts, presumably via
Superbird, beginnning in early 1994. Viewerswill be able to choose between
English and Japanese sound.

     Other Japanese satellites are JCSat 1 and 2 (at 150 and 154
degrees respectively) each with 32 Ku-Band transponders. CS-3a (132degrees)
carries 2 C-Band and 10 Ka-Band (17.7-19.45 GHz) transponders.

	Nihon Keizai Shimbum, Television Tokyo Channel 13 Limited and
fivesub-affiliates say that they will start broadcasting programs by
satellite from 1997 using the BS-4 satellite, which is set to be
launched in 1997. The satellite operator TXN will simulcast HDTVbroadcasts
alongside conventional broadcasts, and the service will besplit between pay-TV
services and advertising supported.  


	Other Asian Satellite Broadcasters

     China's DFH2-A1 is at 87.5 degrees East and DFH2-A2 at 110.5degrees. Each
carries 4 C)band transponders. 

	China's CCTV)3 service has begun relays from the Chinasat)5satellite at 115.5
degrees East, on 3720 MHz.

	The Portuguese Marconi company has signed an agreement with Chinato deliver a
satellite TV service to all of China and South East Asia,called Telesat. Based
in Macao, Telesat would start in late 1994, andwill offer what a Hong Kong
newspaper called "European TV channels".

	Taiwan's DPP political party is reported to be leasing four transponders on
the American NASA's TDRSS satellite at 174 degreesWest.

	After reaching a compromise with Asiasat, Thailand's Thaicom 1 andThaicom 2
satellites will be co)located at 78.5 degrees east. Thaicom 1was launched by
Ariane in December, 1993. The second satellite is to gointo orbit by June,
1994. The satellites will cover South East Asia,eastern China, the Korean
peninsula, and Japan. The two Hughes)builtsatellites will carry 12 transponders
each, 10 C)band and 2 Ku)band.


	The Pacific

     Australia's 3 Aussats are located at 156, 160, and 164 degrees
East. They provide television to the Australian Outback, New Zealand,
and the Pacific, using B-MAC. Each satellites has 15 Ku-Band
transponders in the 12.25-12.75 GHz range. They are being replaced bythe new
Optus B series.

	Australia's Optus B1 satellite went into service on December 16,1992. This
satellite carries 15 Ku)band transponders, is at 160 degreesEast. Australia is
to use B1 and its follow)up B2 to carry a 6 channelsubscription TV service, due
to begin operation in early 1994. 
Unfortunately the B2 satellite was destroyed while being launched fromChina on
December 14, 1992. 

	Moreover, the awarding of the pay)TV franchises has been called by\v\"Satnews":
"The biggest farce arguably in broadcasting history...Eversince the Australian
government first announced that four channelscould be broadcast by satellite
aboard an Optus satellite, the wholeaffair has been dogged by errors, omissions
and plain stupidity.  Thistime two private companies with the same owners, and
related to anunsuccessful previous bidder, have been granted the licences
tobroadcast...Only a few weeks ago two companies failed to come up withmoney
pledged for the licences.  Ucom Pty Limited and Hi Vision Limitedpaid
significantly over the odds against over 50 rivals includingseasoned veterans
such as News Corp. to secure the licences."

	A third licence has been reserved for the state-owned broadcasting
company ABC. 

	Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. has jointed forces with Australia'slargest
telephone company Telestra to form an alliance to exploit theAsian media
market. The new venture will pursue interests andinvestments in activities such
as pay television, home shopping andinteractive services. Telestra and News
Corp. have already taken astake in Australian terrestrial broadcaster Seven
Network Limited, andthe Australian Broadcasting Authority is examining the deal
forevidence of unfair competition. 

	There are many new Pacific satellite services being planned:

	Panamsat, the company behind the trans)Atlantic satellite PAS)1,is preparing
to reach the Pacific. PAS)2, to be launched in May, 1994,will cover the Pacific
region from China and Japan to Western Canada.  

	Tonga has run into problems on two sides with its Rimsat project.Panamsat
claims Tonga has booked too many orbital slots for such asmall country, while
Tonga claims that one of the Indonesian Palapasatellites is in the orbital slot
for the first Tongasat. In 1992Indonesia moved its Palapa B)1 satellite, in
orbit since 1982, to 134degrees East, a position claimed by Tonga, and
registered with theInternational Frequency Registration Board.

	Tongasat 1, a Russian Ghorizont satellite, was to be moved intothat position
on July 20, 1993. When diplomatic efforts to getIndonesia to leave the slot
failed, Tonga threatened to move itssatellite to one of Indonesia's existing
orbital positions, switch iton, and cause tremendous havoc to Indonesia's
satellite communicationsservice. 

	In December, 1993, Indonesia announced the two countries hadsettled their
dispute, although this was supposed to involve bothsharing the orbital
position, a questionable option. Tongasat plans toplace Russian)launched
satellites at 134 and 130 degrees. Five moreRussian satellites are to be
launched for Rimsat over the next fewyears. 

	When Tongasat 1 is in operation from its proper position, it isexpected to
provide coverage from Iran and India to Hawaii. BehindTongasat are two American
companies, Rimsat and Unicom, as well asAsian investors. 

	The American company TRW has filed to launch Pacificom 1 in 1994,to operate in
both the Ku and C bands from 172 degrees East. Thefootprints would reach from
the American West coast into Asia andAustralasia. There would be 11
high)powered Ku band transponders for\v\DBS services, along with 8 C)band
transponders.

	Pacific Satellite Company hopes to launch Pacstar 1 into anorbital slot at
167.5 degrees East in late 1994. This will cover the USWest Coast, Pacific
islands, and East Asia.

	New Zealand is also planning a satellite TV service across theWestern Pacific
and East Asia.


	Asian and Pacific Satellite Radio

     Japan launched the world's first nationwide digital radio
system, using BS-3A. The broadcasts use pulse code modulation, or
PCM, matching the quality of compact disks, and free from the usual
radio hissing noises.

	A Japanese company currently provides 440 cable radio channels.There are plans
to expand the system to 1000 channels within 5 years,with the ultimate aim of
2000 channels. The offerings include thesounds of steam trains, roosters, cows,
and ringing bells.

	The American company Digital Music Express, DMX, planned to startin Australia
during 1993. DMX services are be relayed from the UnitedStates via satellite
and then transmitted to customers using amicrowave distribution system. A small
roof)mounted antenna would beused to receive the signals. Twenty audio channels
would initially beoffered, in addition to a special Australian channel.


\<\VII. Global Satellite Channels
                  
     The war in Vietnam was called the first television war, with the
pictures of violence and horror on American TV screens night after
night contributing to the feelings that fed the growing peace movement.
The conflict in the Gulf was the first live TV war, broadcast around
the world by satellite, and underlining the arrival of the first global
TV broadcaster, the Cable News Network, CNN.

     Arthur C. Clarke, the English visionary who first proposed
communications satellites in 1945, watched what he called "the first's
first satellite war" from his home in Sri Lanka.

     In an interview with Reuters, Clarke said communications is power,
and the forces unleased by satellites in the Gulf War have the
potential for making the world a safer place. The further development
of a satellite communications network with the wider availability of
telephone, fax, and television, Clarke says, will make us one global
family, whether we like it or not.

     The conflict in the Gulf was also a boost for the BBC's long
discussed plans for World Service Television, which became a reality on
March 11th, 1991, taking over the existing BBC-TV Europe service on
Intelsat VI-F4 (now Intelsat 601). In October, 1991 the 24 hour a dayservice to
Asia via Asiasat began. An African service, also on Intelsat601, began in May,
1992. 

	Beginning November, 1992 the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation andBBC World
Service Television began exchanging daily news video. Underthe terms of the
deal, the CBC has exclusive Canadian rights tobroadcast BBC WS TV's news,
business, and weather reports. These arecarried on the English and French
domestic networks as well as the 24hour cable news channel CBC Newsworld (which
is carried scrambled onAnik E2, transponder 16). The service is being relayed
uncoded to NorthAmerica on Intelsat 601 at 27.5 degrees West, using the
C)bandtransponder 4. 

	World Service Television is going ahead with plans to start abilingual service
to Japan and a 24 hour service in Arabic to theMiddle East via Arabsat. Future
plans are to expand into the UnitedStates, the Pacific and Latin America.

	What seems to be becoming the third global broadcaster, and theonly
competition to CNN and BBC World Service, is Rupert Murdoch's NewsCorporation,
which owns British Sky Broadcasting in Europe, FoxBroadcasting in North
America, Star)TV in Asia, and is branching outinto Africa and South America. In
a speech to Sky advertisers inLondon, Murdoch announced "Plans are well
advanced to take Sky News, ora parallel service, to all continents of the
world, where we will beseeking local partners, both national and regional."

	Murdoch's News International has contracted NTL to join a groupdeveloping a
multi)channel digital TV system for direct satellitereception in the home. NTL
will develop the encoding, decoding andmultiplexing technology. The eventual
domestic receiver will be mass*produced under licence for the comsumer market in
Europe, Asia andelsewhere. 

\t\	Deutsche Welle has also become a global broadcaster, working withthe
United States Information Agency's World Net in sharing manytransponders.
Besides broadcasts to Europe on Eutelsat II)F1, DeutscheWelle is using the
Intelsat)K satellite to reach North America. Thesignal is then relayed on
Spacenet 2 transponder 3, and Satcom C4transponder 5.

	Deutsche Welle is also relayed to Africa on Intelsat 601 at 27.5degrees West
at 3.745 GHz. Africa, Asia, and the Pacific are covered bytransmissions on
Intelsat 505 at 66 degrees East at 4.177 GHz. Finally,Deutsche Welle is also
transmitting to the Far East and Pacific onIntelsat 508 at 180 degrees East on
3.993 GHz. 

	Deutsche Welle's Waldemar Kraamer has told Radio Sweden: "In themiddle or end
of 1994 we'll begin broadcasting on Asiasat)2, and we'llthen cover the world
from Eastern Europe to East Asia. There are plansto reach Africa as well.
Currently we can be seen for two hours a dayin North Africa, using transponders
leased by the American WorldNet."

	It was announced at the Internationale Funkaustellung in Berlin onAugust 30th
that Deutsche Welle TV will be expanding from 16 to 24 houra day service from
1994. 

	Another global broadcaster in the making is the French)languageTV5, which has
been broadcasting to Europe on Eutelsat I)F1 on 11.080GHz, and to North America
on Anik E1 transponder 17. TV5 Afriquelaunched on September 30, 1992 via
Ghorizont 12 at 40 degrees East. TV5plans to expand to Latin America using
Panamsat)1. 

	TV5 carries programs from France (TF1, France 2 and 3), Belgium(RTBF),
Switzerland (SSR), and Quebec (Radio Canada). France alsotransmits its Canal
France International to Africa on Intelsats 601 and505, to the Middle East on
Arabsat 1C, and to East Asia on Palapa B2P.

	The Arab world's MBC, which owns the international news agencyUPI, broadcasts
to the Middle East and North Africa on Arabsat, toEurope on Eutelsat, and is
working with the Arab Network of NorthAmerica.


	International Radio Broadcasting By Satellite

     While the BBC, Radio France, and Deutsche Welle can put out 24
hour services in their native languages by satellite, services which
can be relayed over cable networks, it's much harder for small
broadcasters. Both Radio Sweden and Swiss Radio International now havesatellite
channels. But what cable system would relay them, each with aseries of programs
in varying languages?

     One possibility is for many international broadcasters to shareseveral
satellite radio channels, one for English, one for French,
one for German, etc. Cable operators in Britain, for example, couldoffer one
channel with alternating English programs, say from Sweden,the Netherlands,
Switzerland, Germany, Austria, and so on.

	This is what is being pioneered by the World Radio Network withits WRN1
service in English on Astra, which began in September, 1993.If the effort is a
success, services in other languages will follow.

\v\     There are some other options farther into the future, such asDigital
Audio Broadcasting (DAB) by satellite, also called BSS)Sound.This would provide
high quality radio reception to portable receivers.BSS)Sound was approved by
the World Administrative Radio Conferenceheld in Torremolinos, Spain during
February, 1992. 

	The conference agreed that 1.5 GHz was the most technicallysuitable frequency
range, as it offers best reception for portablereceivers, without interference
from the terrain or buildings. Smallwhip antennas can be used and the
satellites will be cheaper to build.

	However, politically many countries could not agree, one of thereasons being
that their existing users at 1.5 GHz in some casesinclude the military. The
conference reached absolute deadlock on thissubject, and it was only in its
very last stages that a compromise wasdrawn up. This provided the world with
three separate allocations forBSS-Sound. One is at 1.5 GHz--with a small
portion of the bandavailable immediately, another allocation at 2.6 GHz, and a
separateband for the US at 2.3 GHz. The result is that digital satellite
radiois now just around the corner, Provided, of course, satellites arebuilt
and receivers brought on to the market.

     Worldspace, based in Washington, DC, plans a service calledAfrispace,
which would broadcast 9 digital radio channels to Africa andthe Middle East.
The planned portable receivers are expected to costaround USD 100 each.
Afristar 1 would be located at 12 degrees West,and Afrispace hopes to be
operating by late 1994. Radio Netherlands hasalready signed a contract with
Afrispace to broadcast 24 hours a day toAfrica and the Middle East. 

	An American company called the International Radio SatelliteCorporation, or
RadioSat, has announced plans to create a worldwidedirect broadcast satellite
service for international broadcasters.RadioSat plans to launch three
high-powered satellites, each with
more than 200 channels to be leased to international broadcasting
organizations. RadioSat says the VOA, BBC World Service, Radio Moscowand 5
other broadcasters have expressed interest. RadioSat hopes tolaunch the first
of its three spacecraft in 1995. 
\L\PART II. WEATHER AND OTHER "UTILITY" SATELLITES

	If TVRO is the satellite version of shortwave broadcast DXing,then these
satellites provide the equivalent of utility monitoring andscanning. The
equipment required can be much less elaborate and muchless expensive than for
TVRO. On the other hand, transmissions may beless comprehensible, without the
necessary expensive or unobtainableequipment for decoding.


I. Wefax

	WEFAX or Weather Facsimile, is the method used to transmitphotographs and
weather satellite maps via radio and telephone lines. 
The satellite version is known as APT. There are many low orbit
weathersatellites using this system in the 136)138 MHz band.

	Some of the active satellites that can be monitored are theAmerican NOAA and
the former Soviet Meteors:

	NOAA beacons..................136.770 MHz
	Meteor 3)3, 3)4 and 3)5.......137.300 MHz  APT
	NOAA 10 and 12................137.500 MHz  APT
	NOAA 9 and 11..................BB137.620 MHz  APT
	NOAA beacons..................137.770 MHz
	Meteor 2)21...................137.850 MHz  APT

	Meteor 2)21 is a new satellite, launched on August 31, 1993.Meteors 3)4 and
3)5 are currently not transmitting. Meteor 3)6 is to belaunched soon. NOAA 13
was launched on August 9, 1993. Unfortunately,contact with the satellite was
lost on August 21, 1993. The launch ofNOAA 14 has been moved up to early 1994.
China has orbited severalpolar orbiting WEFAX satellites in its Fengyun)1
series. None arecurrently operational, but the frequencies used are 137.06,
137.80, and137.795 MHz.

	The satellite APT provides a continuous strip of image as thesatellites circle
the globe in polar orbit. The NOAAs orbit at around800 kilometers, while
Meteors are in a higher orbit at around 1200kilomters. This means that NOAA
satellites pass overhead at the sametime every day (for example NOAA 11 passes
over Britain travellingnorthbound at around 15:30 hrs UTC and southbound at
around 03:00 hrs).Meteors, on the other hand, because of the higher altitude,
tend toarrive earlier each day by 10 to 20 minutes. NOAAs provide both
visibleand infrared images (and can be monitored during darkness), while
theMeteors are more irregular in providing infrared images. 

	The satellites are quite strong, and can be heard on simplescanners and
antennas. However, since the bandwidth of the APT signalis wider than the
narrowband FM bandwidth of ordinary scanners, whichis around 15 to 35 kHz. The
best images are received with receivershaving an IF bandwidth of 45 kHz.
Dedicated WEFAX receivers are sold bya number of companies, including Vanguard
Labs and Hamtronics in the USand Timestep in the UK. For those who find a
dedicated receiver tooexpensive, Software Systems Consulting in the US sells a
speciallymodified scanner for around USD 150.

	It is possible to obtain images using an ordinary scanner orreceiver, such as
the ICOM R7000, although the detail will be lessclear.\v\
	Small non)directional antennas, such as ground planes, discones,or active
antennas are usually all that are required to receivesatellites in low orbit.
The satellites are so strong that even aquarter length whip for the amateur 145
MHz band will result in clearreception. 

	The best antenna to receive polar orbiting satellites, however, isa crossed
dipole or turnstile cut specifically for 137 MHz. It'simportant that the
antenna be omindirectional, but also have a highangle of elevation, to receive
signals from satellites passingoverhead. Most scanner and amateur radio
antennas are designed to havea low angle of elevation, to boost reception of
terrestrial signals.Crossed dipoles can be built fairly easily (there are plans
in theWeather Satellite Handbook and the PC GOES/WEFAX User's ReferenceManual,
for example). There are also a number of commercially availableantennas.

	Other onmidirectional antennas that work well with polar orbitingsatellites
include the linblad, quadrifilar helix, and the verticalhelix. It's
advantageous to use low)loss cable, and a preamplfier,usually mounted at the
antenna end of the cable. Tuned amplifiers, suchas those used for the amateur
radio 2 meter band, work much better thanbroadband amplifiers, which do have
the advantage of being much lessexpensive. Do not use a broadband amplifier
with a broadband scanner ordiscone antenna.

 	To interpret the satellite signals and view the images, computersand special
interfaces are necessary. These are available from the samevendors who sell
receivers, as well as many others. Check out articlesand advertisements in such
magazines as "Monitoring Times" and "PopularCommunications" in the US and
"Shortwave Magazine" in Britain. Notethat many interfaces are solely for
reception of HF Wefax fromshortwave. These will NOT work with satellite APT.
We've tested the PCGOES/WEFAX demodulator for MS)DOS computers from Software
SystemsConsulting. It seems to work very well.

	Most of the available software is for MS)DOS computers, althoughthere are
interfaces and software for other machines, such as the BBCMicro and Sinclair
Spectrum. In most cases the interface is connectedto an available serial port
on the computer, and to the headphone orexternal speaker jack of the receiver.
Some receivers have separateline output jacks, but the levels there are usually
too low. 

	It can be useful to plug a "Y" cable into the headphone jack, withone end
connected to the interface and the other to a small speaker(preferably with its
own volume control), so that the monitor canlisten to the channel at the same
time that it is permanently connectedto the interface. (Cable, small speakers,
and even cables with built)involume controls can be found at suppliers such as
Radio Shack/Tandy.)

	Unlike geostationary satellites, the polar orbiting satellitesmove. While it
can be interesting to tune in from time to time, orremember when the daily
passes of the NOAA satellite occur, the easiestway to know when to look for the
satellites is with a satellitetracking program. Some interface software, such
as PC GOES/WEFAX, comewith tracking programs included. There are a number of
programs foramateur radio satellite tracking available that work very well
withWEFAX satellites. Some are public domain or shareware, and can be foundin
BBS's or in data libraries in online systems such as CompuServe.\v\Others are
available through AMSAT in various countries.


\\II. Geostationary Weather Satellites

	Geostationary satellites provide 24 hour WEFAX transmissions froma single
position in the sky. No tracking or waiting for a satellite tocome in range is
required, but the greater distance and higherfrequencies require more expensive
equipment than that required tomonitor polar orbiting satellites.

	The currently operational geostationary weather satellites are:

Meteosat)4	 0 degrees
Meteosat)5      8 degrees West
Meteosat)3	75 degrees  
GOES)6		75 degrees
GOES)7		112 degrees
GOES)2		135 degrees
GOES)3		176 degrees
GMS)4		140 degrees East

	The American geostationary GOES satellites downlink on 1691 MHz,while the
European Space Agency's Meteosats use 1694.5 MHz. OtherMeteosat frequencies
include 1695.73 and 1695.76 MHz. Meteosat)3 wasoriginally positioned at 50
degrees West longitude, but in early 1993it was moved to 75 degrees West, to
cover for the failure of a GOESsatellite. When the system is fully operational,
there should be GOESsatellites at 59, 112, and 135 degrees West. Meteosat)4 is
at 0 degreeslongitude. Meteosat)5 is positioned nearby, and would have
replacedMeteosat)4 but suffered from imaging faults. The satellite has now
beenreactivated and is scheduled to replace Meteosat)3 at 75 degrees Westin
early 1994. The Japanese GMS)4 is at 140 degrees East.

	Meteosat)6 was launched from French Guiana on November 19, 1993.It is to
replace Meteosat)4 at the end of January, 1994.

	China is scheduled to launch its FENGYUN)2A satellite intogeostationary orbit
on February 23, 1994. This will be positioned at105 degrees East.
	To receive geostationary satellites, it is often easiest to buildupon a
receiving station for polar orbiting satellites. A sensitiveantenna for 1690
MHz is required, usually a dish of around 1 meter orone or more stacked looped
yagis. To this is connected a block downconverter and preamplifier, which
converts the signal from 1690 MHzdown to 137 MHz. This is important because
cable absorbs more energy at1690 MHz than at 137 MHz.

	The GOES and Meteosat satellites use the same APT format as foundon the polar
orbiting satellites. They also supply higher quality PDUSand HRPT images, which
require specialized receiving equipment, whichis also available. The GMS
satellites use a wide band FM format that isincompatible with APT. They use a
frequency deviation of 150 kHz, whichrequires receivers with that bandwidth.

	The European Space Agency plans to launch a new Meteosat in late1993 and NOAA
has scheduled launches of new GOES satellites in April,1994 and in 1995. 
AAAAMeteosat, operated by the European Space Agency on behalf of theEuropean
Meterological Office, will be undergoing in)flight testsbefore it enters
service at 0 degrees longitude at the end of January1994. Tests will be
conducted while the satellite drifts from itscurrent orbital position at 19
degrees west. \v\
The first on)board test images will be relayed back towards the end ofthis
week.

Once operational Meteosat 6 will replace Meteosat 4, which will becomea back up
satellite. Meteosat 5 will then be drifted to cover theAmericas to replace
Meteosat 3, presently on loan to the US WeatherService )) NOAA )) which has
suffered the loss of many of its
satellites (Satnews passim). Meteosat only has a lifespan of a fewmonths left.

Meteosat 7 and 8 are scheduled to be launched by the end of 1995, justbefore
Eumetsat takes over all the operation off Meteosat satellitesfrom ESA.



III. Other "Utility" Satellites

	There are many other satellites using the 136)138 MHz band. Manyuse narrow
band FM to transmit their telemetry. Britain's Prospesosatellite is on 137.56
MHz. Temisat transmits on 137.72 MHz. Japan'sMarine Observation Satellites MOS
1 and 1B can be heard on 136.11 MHz.India's Bhaskara 1 (137.230 MHz) and 2
(137.380 MHz) also use narrowband FM. A Transit navigational satellite can be
heard on 136.65 MHz.Sweden's Freja)1 auroral research satellite uses 137.50
MHz, afrequency generally used by the NOAA satellites. 

	Other satellites monitored in this band in the past include NASA'sATS)3
(136.37), Transit (136.65), IUE (136.86), Marecs A/B (137.17),Okean (137.4),
and Intercosmos (137.45). There have been, and will be,many other satellites in
this band.

	Other interesting satellites on nearby frequencies include theAmerican Hilat
(149.988 MHz narrow band FM) and Geosat (150.015 and 400MHz CW). 

	The American Transit and former Soviet CosNav satellites providenavigational
data to ships and submarines. They transmit simultaneouslyon two frequencies:

	Channel 1))149.910 and 399.762 MHz
	Channel 2))149.940 and 399.842 MHz
	Channel 3))149.970 and 399.922 MHz
	Channel 4))150.000 and 400.200 MHz
	Channel 5))150.030 and 400.082 MHz

	The CosNavs may also use 148.91 and 388.84 MHz.

	Scientific and research satellites use the following bands: 400*402 MHz,
1400)1429 MHz, and 2655)2700 MHz.

	Sweden's Freja)1 research satellite, investigating the NorthernLights, has a
beacon on 400.55 MHz. Other satellites monitored around400 MHz include DOD
(401)401.5) and DCS (401.5)403). Various DODsatellites are listed using the
band between 406 and 425 MHz. 

	Marisat are geo)stationary satellites carrying transponders formaritime mobile
and aeronautical communications. Maritime Mobile use1535)1543 MHz downlinks
while Aero Mobile uses 1458)1542 MHz for\v\downlinks. 

	The American Landsat operates around 2 GHz, as do the Franco*Swedish Spot photo
satellites.

	The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a new American system thatwill
eventually include 24 Navstar satellites in a 55 degree inclinedorbit at 20 to
200 kilometers above the Earth. These provide accuratelongitude, latitude, and
altitude information to handheld units thatmonitor 3 to 4 satellites. They use
spread spectrum transmissionsaround 1575.42  MHz. Besides the commercial
version, which providesaccuracy to around 100 meters, there is a more accurate
military systemwhich was used by American Army Intelligence during the Gulf
War. Thisuses an additional signal on around 1227.6 MHz to compensate
forvarious delays between the satellites and the receiver.

	Although GPS satellites don't transmit a signal that can belistened to in a
traditional sense, the status of the entire system canbe monitored on a
shortwave receiver. WWV transmits an update thesystem every 14 minutes on 2.5,
5, 10, 15, and 20 MHz.

	The similar former Soviet GLONASS (Global Navigation SatelliteSystems) system
uses 1250, 1597, 1603, and 1617 MHz. There are to be 24GLONASS satellites in
orbit.



\6\PART III. Amateur Radio in Space

	Besides governments and corporations, radio amateurs have alsolaunched many
satellites. The first communications satellite was infact the Moon, which radio
amateurs bounced have bounced signals offfor years. In 1960 a group of radio
amateurs in the United Statesformed the Project Oscar ("Orbiting Satellite
Carrying Amateur Radio")Association to design and build satellites for use in
the amateur radiobands. 

	Oscar was succeeded by the Amateur Satellite Corporation (AMSAT)in 1969. There
are national AMSAT societies in many countries, and theinternational
headquarters is in Washington, DC.

Amateur Radio Satellites:

Satellite			BBOrbit		Beacon or Downlink 		Modes/Comments

Oscar 10		elliptical	145.810/145.987 MHz
Oscar 11		circular		145.826/435.025
RS 10/11		circular		29.357/.408    		RS)10 CW
						145.857/.903			   "
						29.407/.453			RS)11 CW
						145.907/.953			   "
Oscar 13		elliptical	145.812/435.651
UO)14		circular		435.070
PO)16		circular		437.02625/437.0513
DO)17		circular		145.825				voice synth.
WO)18		circular		437.0751/437.102         slowscan TV
LO)19		circular		437.1258/437.15355       packet BBS
FO)20		circular		435.795/435.910		packet BBS
AO)21					145.987				FM/packet dnlink
						145.800/.819/.838/.948   beacons    
UO)22		circular		435.120 (see below)		packet BBS
RS)12/13		circular		29.408/.454			RS)12 CW
						145.912/.959			   "
						29.458/.504			RS)13 CW
						145.862/.908			   "
KO)23		circular		435.175	               packet BBS
AO)24     	elliptical	2446.47                  2 meter failure
KO)25          circular       435.175/500	          packet BBS
IO)26          circular       435.867/822              packet and voice
AO)27          circular       436.800				packet and FM
PO)28          circular       435.250/435.275          occasional


	The easiest way to get started in amateur satellite monitoring isto listen to
the RS satellites in the 10 and 15 meter bands on anordinary shortwave
receiver. Radio amateurs with a shortwave receiverand a 2 meter transmitter
(even a handheld) can work the RS satellites.An ordinary longwire antenna is
all that is needed for shortwave, andsimple quarter wavelength 2 meter whips
will do for transmitting.

	Most users use more sophisticated equipment. Omnidirectionalantennas will work
the satellites in low earth orbit, although mostactive users prefer directional
gain antennas, such as crossed yagis,on a motorised rotor run from a satellite
tracking program.

\t\	Tracking programs are vital for finding amateur radio satellites.
Some are public domain or shareware, and can be found in BBS's or indata
libraries in online systems such as CompuServe. Others areavailable through
AMSAT in various countries. We've tested one of thebest programs for the MS)DOS
computers, RealTrak, which is highlyrecommended. The more sophisticated
programs can interface with antennarotors.

	Most amateur radio satellites use some kind of digital packetradio mode.
Terrestrial packet radio operators can move up to satelliteoperation fairly
easily, although a variety of packet modes are used,and new modems to connect
to existing TNCs will be needed in mostcases. Conventional packet radio uses a
system known as AFSK (AudioFrequency Phase Shift Keyed) modulation. This was
used by some earliersatellites, such as UO)11, and is used by Dove. UO)11 uses
an olderASCII system, AMSAT)TTY, similar to Bell 202, but at 1200 baud. 

	Because of the Doppler Effect (frequency shift from high speed),satellite
packet generally uses a different system called PSK (PhaseShift Keyed)
modulation. AO)13 and 21 use a system with 400 baud ASCII.The first "microsats"
(AO)16, WO)18, LO)19, FO)20, and AO)21) use a1200 baud system where the uplink
is Manchester coded AFSK (FM), whilethe downlink is BPSK (SSB). UO)22, KO)23
and 25, and PO)28 use what maybe the amateur satellite of the future, FSK (FM)
at 9600 baud. Some ofthe second generation "microsats", A0)27 and IO)26, are
more flexible,with up and downlinks at varying speeds up to 9600 baud.

	Oscar 10 and 13 have elliptical orbits, which mean that they tendto "hover"
over the Northern Hemisphere, making for long periods forcontacts with little
adjustment needed in tracking antennas. However,they require antennas with
higher gain than those used for the circularorbit satellites.
	
	The former Soviet RS)10/11 and RS)12/13 are each two separatepackages on the
same satellite.

	UO)14 (UoSat)3), PO)16 (PacSat), DO)17 (Dove), WO)18 (WeberSat),LO)19 (LuSat)
are known as "microsats" because of their small size.They were launched
together with an Ariane rocket in January, 1990.

	UO)14 was made by the University of Surrey in Britain. UO)15,launched with
UO)14, stopped transmitting the day after launch. Ownedby Volunteers in
Technical Assistance, UO)14 carries a packet radioBBS, which is used to
transmit free medical information to universitiesin East Africa. The service,
known as HealthNet, is operated by anorganization called Satel)Life. Health)Net
transmissions use packetradio at 9600 baud, with downlinks on 428.01 and
429.985 MHz. 

	PO)16 was built by AMSAT)North America, and LO)19 by AMSATArgentina. They
contain PSK packet radio BBS's. Dove is a Brazilian*made "peace satellite". It
has a voice synthesizer and also transmitsstandard packet AFSK)FM on 145.825
MHz. WO)18 was built by Weber StateUniversity in Utah. It contains an onboard
camera that downlinks itspictures by packet radio. The Japanese JO)20 also
carries a packet BBS,with similar up and downlink frequencies to PO)16 and
UO)19.

	The French satellite SARA is an amateur astronomy satellite, witha beacon on
145.955 MHz. It's use of an amateur radio frequency iscontroversial, and
probably illegal.
\v\	South Korea's KO)23 downlinks ordinary packet radio at 9600 baudon 435.175
MHz. The satellite can also photograph the Earth and measurecosmic rays. It
carries an amateur radio electronic mail system, andwill conduct experiments in
voice broadcasting. It's described as anear clone of UO)14 and UO)22. KITSAT)B
(KO)25), launched with thesecond set of microsats on September 5, 1993, is
virtually identical,as is the amateur radio part of Portugal's PoSat (PO)26),
launched atthe same time.

	The Kitsats are in near circular orbit 1300 kilometers from theEarth, with an
inclination of 66 degrees, which make them available tousers much farther to
the north and to the south than most amateurradio satellites. 

	Arsene, launched with Astra 1C in May, 1993, orbits over theequator. It's
farthest distance from the Earth is 37,000 kilometers,just about the same
distance as geostationary satellites, but since itgets as close as 17,500
kilometers, it appears to slowly drift fromwest to east. The high orbit means
access time of nearly 20 hours aday. ARSENE was supposed to function as a
packet radio repeater in thesky, relaying AFSK packet down to Earth. However,
the 2 meter equipmenthas failed, and the satellite can only be worked on voice
in S modewith a downlink on 2446.54 MHz. There is also a beacon on 2446.47 MHz.

	The Italian amateur radio satellite IO)28 (Itamsat) downlinksvoice FM as well
as ordinary AFSK packet at 1200 baud and PSK at 1200and 9600 baud. Uplinks can
vary between 1200, 4800, and 9600 baud. TheAmerican commercial satellite Amrad
(AO)27) will sometimes relaydigital (300)9600 baud) and FM voice amateur radio
signals. 

	There are plans for many more amateur radio satellites. UNAMSATfrom Mexico and
RS)15 from Russia are awaiting launch. UNAMSAT willcarry a packet PSK BBS, with
a downlink on 437.200 MHz. CEsat)1 fromChile, SUNSAT from South Africa,
Finland's HUTSAT, the American Sedsat,and Guerwin)1 from Israel are under
construction. Guerwin will probablybe a packet PSK BBS, with a downlink around
435.250 MHz.

	Radio amateurs are particularly looking forward to the Phase 3)Dsatellite, a
follow)up to the aging Oscars 10 and 13. Phase 3)D willcarry a matrix of
separate transmitters and receivers that can belinked together, rather than
discrete transponders. The satellite willcarry equipment for 145 and 435 MHz,
as well as 1.2, 2.4, 5.6, and 10GHz.

	Phase 3)D will cost around USD 5 million, as much as ageostationary satellite.
Many radio amateurs are looking forward to theday when there will be
geostationary amateur radio satellites, what iscalled Phase 4 But AMSAT has
decided to go ahead with Phase 3)D,because a single geostationary satellite
would only benefit one thirdof the world's amateur radio population. Three
would be needed toprovide communications for radio amateurs everywhere. But we
can lookforward to the day when radio amateurs will have access to 24
hourcommunications, without the bother of tracking programs and rotors
tocomplicate things.

	Then there's Northern California's Project Oscar, which orbitedthe first
amateur radio satellite, which has now proposed installingthe first repeater on
the Moon. The group hopes to get "ProjectMoonray" off the ground by the turn of
the century.\r\Part IV. MONITORING THE SPACE SHUTTLE, MIR, AND THE MILITARY

I. The Space Shuttle and MIR

	Space shuttle communications have been relayed on shortwave from anumber of
amateur radio clubs at NASA bases. These are in single sideband (SSB), and the
frequencies to look for are 3862, 7185, 14295,21395, and 28650 kHz from WA3NAN
at the Goddard Space Flight Center inMaryland; 3840, 14280, 21350, and 28495
 kHz from the Johnson SpaceCenter in Texas; and 3840 and 21280 kHz from the Jet
PropulsionLaboratory in California.

	Here are some reported frequencies connected with the shuttlemissions:

Shortwave (SSB):

	Western Test Range.............................. 5700 kHz
										   13218 
	Eastern Test Range.............................. 5190
	NASA Tracking Ships............................. 5180
										    5187
	Launch Support Ships............................11104
										   19303
	NASA Kennedy Operations......................... 7675
	USAF Cape Radio................................. 6837
										    6896
										   11414
	BB										   11548
										   19640
										   23413								

	Shuttle)Mission Control.........................11201

	NASA Ascension Island tracking..................20186
	NASA CB Radios..................................27065

VHF/UHF (AM):

     Military aircraft emergency frequency...........  243.0 MHz
	Primary shuttle communications..................  259.7
	Shuttle space suits.............................  279.0 
	Primary UHF downlink............................  296.0
	Air)to)ground or orbiter)to)suit................  296.8

S)Band (Wideband FM) via TDRS satellites:

	NASA downlink................................... 2205.0 MHz
										    2217.5
										    2250.0
										    2287.5
	Primary digital downlink........................ 2287.5

	North American satellite TV monitors can watch live video from theshuttle
missions via NASA Select on Satcom 2R transponder 13. A voiceTV schedule update
can be heard by calling American telephone number 1*202)755)1788. Missions with
German astronauts may be relayed on one ofthe Kopernikus satellites to Europe.
Space launches may also be carriedon Intelsat 504 at 31.4 degrees West, on
11.133 GHz.
\v\
	Amateur Radio on the Shuttle

	There have been many amateur radio operations from the shuttles,known as SAREX
(Shuttle Amateur Radio Experiment). The first was Dr.Owen Garriott, W5LFL, from
"Columbia" in 1985. He was heard by tens ofthousands of listeners and made two
way contact with some 350 stationsusing FM with a downlink on 145.55 MHz.

	With the resumption of shuttle missions after the "Challenger"crash, amateur
radio operations have resumed as well, with both FMvoice and packet radio.
Unfortunately most shuttle flights maintain anorbital inclination of 28
degrees, which restricts radio contacts tostations within around 30 degrees of
the Equator. Occasional missionsuse a greater inclination, up to 57 degrees,
which make it possible formany more people to listen to and contact the
shuttle.

	STS)37, on "Atlantis" in April, 1991, was particularly noteworthy,as all five
crew members were licensed radio amateurs. There werehundreds of contacts with
amateur radio operators on Earth. While aproblem curtailed packet radio and
slowscan television operation, thefirst television picture ever received on
board a spacecraft wascarried out using fast scan television. The Atlantis crew
was also ableto hear the Soviet cosmonauts on MIR, but were unable to complete
twoway communications.

	The entire crew of STS)45, in March, 1992, were also radioamateurs. At least
nine of the current astronauts have amateur radiolicenses, which means that
virtually every launch will have an amateuronboard. The usual downlink
frequency is 145.55 MHz.


	MIR

	The former Soviet MIR space station can easily be heard with itspowerful FM
signals on 143.625 MHz, but this channel is now only beingused over Europe,
when the station is in range of the ground station inthe Crimea. Funding cuts
dictated that the communications ships offSable Island, Madeira, etc., which
were relaying MIR by shortwave, areno longer operational.

	Voice communications have also been reported on 143.42 and 142.42MHz, as well
as a beacon on 121.75 MHz. Data communications from MIRhave been heard on
166.130 (or possibly 165.875) MHz. Other frequenciesreported from the former
Soviet space program are:

	Soyuz T)11 space vehicle telemetry....  20008
	Soyuz T)11 voice communications.......142.423 MHz
	Soyuz TM)3 and TM)4...................121.750
	Progress 7 supply ship................166.000

	When out of range of the CIS ground stations, MIR communicationsare now often
relayed through the "Luch" or "Altair" transpondersystems of CIS geostationary
satellites. The Soviet satellite trackingnetwork is called SDRN, the Satellite
Data Relay Network. Downlinks areon 10.8, 11.3, and 13.7 GHz. The relay most
used over Europe is via thesatellite at 16 degrees West listed as ZSSRT)2 (an
abbreviation of theRussian words "Zemlya S Sputnik Radio Translator", meaning
"Westerngeostationary satellite transponder"). There is also an eastern
relayat 167 degrees East. \v\
	The SECAM color signals from MIR are listed at 10.835 GHz, but areactually
carried at 10.829 GHz (unfortunately just below the range ofmost satellite TVRO
receivers). Monitors can look for the satellite bytuning in to the strong data
signals on 11.375 GHz, which can often beseen as flashing lines on the screen.
Voice signals from MIR can beheard near the TV frequency, on a 300 kHz SSB
subcarrier, but only whenno TV signals are being relayed. 

	MIR video has also been reported on the Ghorizont at 11 degreesWest, on 11.525
GHz. 

	The Molniya satellites are also used for relaying manned spacevoice
communications.


	Amateur Radio on MIR

	Several MIR cosmonauts have been radio amateurs. In 1988 amateurradio stations
U1MIR, U2MIR, and U3MIR operated on 145.550 and 145.400MHz FM. Musa, U2MIR, was
on the air frequently in 1990 and 1991.

	Britain's first astronaut, Helen Sharman, spent 8 days on MIR inMay, 1991. She
operated the amateur radio station there, under the callsign GB1MIR. Contacts
on 145.55 MHz continued in 1992, and are expectedto continue in 1993, in both
FM as U6MIR and packet radio with thecallsign U6MIR)1. MIR reception reports
can be sent, along with a self*addressed envelope and USD 1 to 5 to: 

	RV3DR, Sergai Samburov, Space QSL Manager
	P.O. Box 141070, Box 73
	Kaliningrad)10 City
	Moscow Area
	Russia


\H\II. Military Communications in Space

	Military communications are usually coded, but occasionally sometransmissions
are in the clear. Most military satellites are in geo*stationary orbit. These
include FLEETSATCOM satellites at 72, 75, 77,100, 105, 145, and 177 degrees
West. These use frequencies in the 240to 399 MHz range, as well as around 7, 8,
19, 20, 30, and 44 GHz.

	FLEETSATCOM are the most popular satellites for listeners as theyhave some
unencrypted FM channels. The most active are between 261 and263 and between 269
and 270 MHz.

	During the Gulf War, monitors reported that American militarycommunications in
the Gulf could be heard from the FLEETSATCOMsatellite network between 240 and
270 MHz, with most of the voicetraffic in the 260 MHz range, and most coded.
One monitor reported to"Popular Communications" American AWACS planes on
263.825 MHz and Saudiforces on 249.325 MHz. Other active frequencies reported
were 261.825,262.200, 262.150, 262.425, and 263.525 MHz. According to
anotherreport, traffic on Fleetsatcom 7 has been heard on 249.125,
250.350,262.300, and 263.825 MHz.

	Since the shooting down of an American U)2 surveillance plane overthe then
Soviet Union in 1960, the United States has developed anetwork of spy
satellites, some of which monitor radio communications.The most recent
generation known to the public is KH)11, first launchedin 1976, and the first
spy satellite to transmit images in real time. Anew type, called "Advanced
KH)11" was first put into orbit by the spaceshuttle Discovery in 1989. 

	In order to communicate with ground stations the KH)11 satellitesuse a system
of satellites in polar orbits. The 14 current satellitesin this Satellite Data
System (SDS) seem to use frequencies around 240MHz and in the 1700)1900 MHz
range. As there have been no SDS launchessince 1988, there is a good
possibility that the American Tracking andData Relay Satellites (TDRS) are
taking over the task of relaying datafrom the KH)11 satellites.

	The next generation of American military satellites is calledMilstar. Funding
for 6 Milstars has been approved. They will be themost sophisticated
communications satellites ever designed, putting allmilitary communications in
the same system, making possiblecommunications between the various services.
"Popular Communications"says there are 10 assigned positions, but only 2 or 3
are known to bein orbit at this time. Milstars use frequencies around 2, 20,
and 45GHz.

	The former Soviet satellite tracking network is called SDRN, theSatellite Data
Relay Network. Downlinks are on 10.8, 11.3, and 13.7GHz. 

	The Molniya satellites use a highly elliptical orbit that makes itpossible to
reach high latitudes out)of)reach of geo)stationarysatellites (which would be
too low on the horizon). Molniya 1 uses 800MHz and 1 GHz, while Molniya 3
satellites use 4 and 6 GHz. These carrysatellite broadcast television as well
as military and manned spacevoice communications.


\v\PART V. HORIZONS

	Space exploration can be expected to continue. The American spacestation
Freedom is scheduled for launch in the late 1990's. AMSAT andthe ARRL have
submitted a formal proposal to NASA for a permanentamateur radio station on
Freedom. The proposal includes downlinks inthe 145, 435, and 2401 MHz bands.
Three geostationary satellites wouldbe used to relay continuous communications
from Freedom. AMSAT hopes tohave its own geostationary satellites in orbit in
the near future.Until then, the system would use the TDRS satellites used for
shuttlecommunications.

	Project Oscar has called for an amateur radio repeater on theMoon.

	Farther into the future, it may be possible to monitorcommunications from
proposed Moon bases, expeditions to Mars, or futurespace colonies in Earth
orbit.

	Moving deeper into space, radio astronomy probes the limits of theuniverse on
wavelengths other than those of light used by conventionalastronomy. To this
belongs SETI, the Search for Extra Terrestrial Life.The first SETI project was
carried out by Dr. Frank Drake at theNational Radio Astronomy Observatory in
Greenback, West Virginia, in1960. He listened to two relatively close stars for
two weeks on oneparticular frequency.

	Project META, a SETI project at Harvard University, funded by thePlanetary
Society and film director Steven Spielberg (the maker of"E.T." and "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind") is monitoring sweepsacross the sky on 8.4
million discrete frequencies. After five years ofobservations, there are 11
interesting "events" that satisfy all butone of the critera for a genuine alien
signal. As astronomer CarlSagan, President of the Planetary Society, writes in
"Parade Magazine":

	"We've never been able to find any of them again. We look back atthat part of
the sky three minutes later, there's nothing. We look thefollowing
day))nothing. Examine it a year later, or six years later,and still there's
nothing."

	NASA started its new SETI program on October 12, 1992, using aradio telescope
in California's Mohave Desert, and another at theArecibo Observatory in Puerto
Rico. In the first year, 164 strong"candidate" signals were found for closer
examination. Unfortunately,in the Fall of 1993, the U.S. Congress, looking to
reduce the budgetdeficit, cut the USD 10 million dollar a year funding for the
program.

	Carl Sagan writes about the effect finding intelligent life onother worlds
could have on us: "The knowledge that such other beingsexist and that, as the
evolutionary process requires, they must be verydifferent from us would have a
striking implication: Whateverdifferences divide us down here on Earth are
trivial compared to thedifferences between any of us and any of them. Maybe
it's a long shot,but discovery of extraterrestrial intelligence might play a
role inunifying our squabbling and divided planet. It would be a rite
ofpassage for our species, a transforming event in the ancient quest
todiscover our place in the universe."
	
\t\	There may be a role in the SETI quest for amateurs. Speaking to"Monitoring
Times", astronomer Kent Cullers of the NASA Ames ResearchCenter in California
says that amateurs could try searching the 1)1.4GHz range, because
"interstellar noise is relatively low there.""Monitoring Times" points out that
antennas are critically important,and suggests dishes, quads, and helical
antennas. A computer can beprogrammed to scan frequencies. If signals are
passed through adigitizer, the computer can break the information into small
slices andcan reject certain kinds of local interference.

	
FOR MORE INFORMATION

	One way to keep up with the amateur radio satellites is to listento one of the
AMSAT nets on shortwave. Here are some:

	International Net))Sundays 19:00 hrs UTC on 14282 kHz
	European Net)))))))Saturdays 10:00 hrs on 14280 kHz
	Asian)Pacific Net))Sundays 11:00 hrs on 14305 kHz

	AMSAT and its national societies publish newsletters and sellcomputer hardware
and software for use in monitoring amateur radiosatellites. The main AMSAT
address is: Box 27, Washington, DC, 20044,USA. AMSAT)UK is at 94 Herongate
Road, Wanstead Park, London E12 5EQ,England. AMSAT)Sweden is at Box 1311, S)600
43 Norrkoeping, Sweden.

	There are a number of computer bulletin boards for spaceenthusiasts in the
United States:

	1)205)895)0028		NASA BBS			
	1)512)852)8194		AMSAT Software Exchange BBS
	1)214)394)7438		Downlink BBS (AMSAT)
	1)214)340)5850		N5ITU BBS			
	1)513)427)0674		Celestial RCP/M BBS	
	1)904)786)8142		Starship Enterprise BBS
	1)804)743)0559		Astro BBS (amateur astronomy)

	There are also resourcess on the Internet of interest to spaceenthusiasts,
such as: NASA News, NASA Spacelink, Shuttle and SatelliteImages, the NASA/IPAC
Extra Galactic Database, and news groups such asalt.radio.amateur.packet,
alt.satellite.tv.*, and others.

	The CompuServe HamNet Forum has a section devoted to amateur radiosatellites.
The Consumer Electronics Forum has a TVRO section. Thereare a number of other
space forums on CompuServe, including a NASAsection with news from the American
space agency. CompuServe now haslocal access nodes around the world, especially
in Western Europe andJapan. For more information contact: CompuServe, 5000
Arlington CentreBlvd,. Box 20212, Columbus, OH 43220, USA.

	The FIDO network contains several conferences about satellitetelevision,
amateur radio satellites, and packet radio. 

	There are several BBS's for WEFAX enthusiasts in Britain. TheDartcom BBS
(0822)88249) is located at a WEFAX equipment supplier. TheRemote Imaging Group
operates the RIG BBS (0945)85666) for members.  

\r\	Two very interesting newsletters about satellite broadcasting areavailable
over data networks. Both of which were used extensively incompiling this
booklet, and we'd like to thank both for makingthemselves available to us.

	"SatNews" is huge, so big that the fortnightly uploads have to bedivided into
two or three files. There's probably more here about theelectronics and
satellite industries than any one person wants, but allthe important news is
included. Editor Darren Ingram does a great job,but it caters to business
interests, at business prices. Fortunatelythey offer a special rate to
non)commercial subscribers: GBP 50 or USD100 for one year to an
Internet)compatible mailbox. If you need thiskind of information, it's well
worth it. You can contact SatNews at theInternet mailbox
satnews@cix.compulink.co.uk for more information.

	"Skyguide" is a short weekly newsletter covering satellite andcable
broadcasting, concentrating on the UK. Fortunately, it's free,although
distribution has been uneven recently. You can find Skyguideevery week on
London's CIX conferencing system, in the Skyguideconference, the Fidonet
Satellite TV echo, and the packet radionetwork. Skyguide is now available on
the Internet in thealt.satellite.tv.europe newsgroup. 

	"Dial)a)Shuttle" is a telephone number available during shuttlemissions, with
news updates and live relays from the astronauts. Thenumber is 1)900)909)6272.

	Europeans can access interesting, if uneven, rumors and news aboutsatellite
broadcasting from the "In Orbit" teletext pages, on SuperChannel beginning on
page 375 and on UK Gold, pages 333 and 334. Thecontent of the services vary
slightly ) Super Channel's version isconsistently more critical of Astra and
Sky, while the UK Gold versionappears (at the moment) to be more neutral.

	There's a very good source of up-to-date satellite news, most of
it in German, from a fax polling number in Germany. If you have a fax
machine, you just dial up the number, and automatically receive pages
of news. The initial number is +49-89-418-608. Then there are two morenumbers
for the different services.

	99 gets you a list of satellite channels in the S-band, C-band,and Ku-band,
between 66 degrees East and 10 degrees East. 49 gets asimilar list between 7
degrees East and 53 degrees West. 97 is forsatellite programming news, and 98
for satellite industry news. 94 isfor satellite data communications news,
compiled by English by Darren
Ingram, editor of "Satnews".

	The World Radio TV Handbook contains a section on World SatelliteBroadcasts,
which lists current and some planned geostationarybroadcast satellites, with
detailed lists of transponder usage. We madeextensive use of the WRTH in
compiling the section on Asian satellites.Unfortunately, there are no satellite
listings in the ordinary sectionof the handbook. If you look up Radio Sweden or
Swiss RadioInternational, or the BBC in the WRTH, you'll find the
shortwaveschedules, but not a word about the satellite relays. The
onlyindication is a tiny little dish symbol next to the
appropriatebroadcaster. These refer to the "World Satellite Broadcasts"
section.

\t\	Nevertheless, you still have to know what you're looking for, andit would
make a lot of sense to include this information under theregular listings as
well. This can get complicated, of course.....wheredo you list information on
Deutsche Welle's broadcasts on satellitesover North America, under Germany,
Canada, or the USA? But there oughtto be a solution.

	The World Satellite Annual, compiled by Mark Long, has just abouteverything
you could possibly want to know about communicationssatellites. It lists all
the current and many planned satellites ingeosynchronous orbit, with footprint
maps and channel tables. There arechapters on satellite launch vehicles for the
1990s, the status of DBSin America, updates on Intelsat and Eutelsat, European
ScramblingSystems, and the Satellite News Gathering Revolution. The book
isexpensive, at USD 100 plus postage. But for the serious satellite DXer,it's
well worth it. For more information contact MLE Inc., Box 159,Winter Beach,
Florida, 32971, USA. 

	Together with Jeffrey Keating, Mark Long as also written The Worldof Satellite
Television, a basic guide to installing, operating, andmaintaining a backyard
satellite dish antenna. Available for USD 13from Quantam Publications, Box 310,
Mendocino, CA 95460, USA.

	Communications Satellites, by Larry Van Horn, covers U.S. andSoviet manned
space missions, military, weather, navigational, andcommunications satellites.
It's available for USD 13. (*)

	The Hidden Signals on Satellite Television, by Thomas Harringtonand Bob Cooper
Jr., goes into detail about SCPC, audio subcarriers,teletext, and other
non)video signals on North American satellites. Italso covers the equipment
needed. Available for USD 20. (*)

	The three books above are the best guides for satellite radio andTV DXing.
Those interested in weather satellites should look into:

	The New Weather Satellite Handbook by Dr. Ralph Taggart is themost
comprehensive book around about monitoring weather satellites. The new 4th
edition is available for USD 20 from the American RadioRelay League, Newington,
CT, USA, or from Metsat Products, Box 142,Mason, MI 48854, USA. (*)

	AMSAT and the American Radio Relay League have published anexcellent guide to
amateur radio satellites called The SatelliteExperimenter's Handbook. (*) The
2nd edition is available for USD 20,from: AMSAT, Box 27, Washington, DC 20044,
USA. The later SatelliteAnthology ought to update the handbook, but it doesn't.
Instead itreprints articles from "QST" magazine, some of which are very
out)of*date. AMSAT also publishes "Satellite Journal" magazine and
"AmateurSatellite Report".

	Most of these books are available from a number of sources. Manyof the ones
marked (*) should be available from the following: "73Magazine", Forest Road,
Hancock, NH 03449, USA; Grove Enterprises, 140Dog Branch Road, Brasstown, NC
28902, USA; Universal Electronics, 4555Groves Road, Suite 3, Columbus, Ohio
43232, USA); and EEB, 323 Mill St.NE, Vienna, VA 22180, USA.

	Some books of interest to Europeans may be ordered from PWPublishing, Enefco
House, The Quay, Poole, Dorset BH15 1PP, Britain.
\v\	The best program listing for North American TVRO monitors is"Satellite TV
Week", available for USD 48 a year from Satellite TVWeek, Box 308, Fortuna, CA
95540, USA.

	There are a couple of British monthlies with channel listings andsatellite
news, "What Satellite" (57)59 Rochester Place, London NW19JU) and "Satellite TV
Europe" (5 Riverpark Estate, Berkhamsted HP41HD).

	"Transponder" is a British newsletter, filled with informationabout satellite
broadcasting. Published 24 times a year, it's availablein the UK for GBP 37, in
Europe for GBP 60, and outside Europe for GBP75, from: Transponder, Box 112,
Crewe Cheshire, CW2 7DS, England.

	"Satellite Watch Newsletter" is the magazine of the video piratesatellite
underground, people who regard any kind of coding as aviolation of American
Constitutional rights. Lots of details ondescrambler hardware and software. But
12 issues are available for USD35, from: Walker Media Group, 6599 Commerce Ct.
No. 103, Gainsville, VA22065, USA.

	Radio Netherlands publishes an interesting leaflet called "WeatherSatellite
Fact Sheet", as well as "Satellites for the ShortwaveListener". Both are
available for free from: Radio Netherlands, Box222, NL)1200 JG Hilversum, the
Netherlands.

	The Fall, 1990 edition of "Whole Earth Review" has an excellentarticle by
Robert Horvitz called "Tabletop Earth)Watch Stations" aboutmonitoring WEFAX,
with the WER's usual good guide to sources. Availablefor USD 7 (more for
postage abroad) from: Whole Earth Review, Box 38,Sausalito, CA 94966, USA.

	The American magazines "Monitoring Times" and "PopularCommunications" have
columns with the latest on North Americansatellite TVRO. "73 Magazine" has a
column on amateur radio satellites.The British sister magazines "Short Wave
Magazine" and "PracticalWireless" cover satellites very well from the European
perspective. Theemphasis in the former is on TVRO and WEFAX, in the latter on
amateurradio satellites. 

	If you're into cyberpunk, "Wired" magazine from San Franciscocovers everything
from the Internet and Virtual Reality to satellitetelevision in Asia and
special effects on "Star Trek". When he wasbeing interviewed for the magazine,
Arthur C. Clarke took one look atit and thought it should have been spelled
"Weird".

	For the story of telecommunications, from the first Atlantic cableto his own
original proposal of communications satellites, and up tothe present, science
and science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke's Howthe World Was One is a
fascinating read.

	CNN: The Inside Story by Hank Whitmore is the story of TurnerBroadcasting's
early years, published in connection with CNN's 10thanniversary in 1990. Since
it was released by CNN, it's not likely tocontain anything really negative or
overly)revealing, but it is afascinating behind)the)scenes look at how the
satellite TV industry gotstarted, and how CNN works. Our only complaint is that
there's toolittle about CNN International and the network's expansion beyond
NorthAmerica (which has largely happened after 1990).
\v\	For information about amateur radio astronomy, you can contact theBritish
Amateur Radio Astronomy Society, c/o Steven Newberry, 19Oakway, Kingsley Park,
Birkenshaw, Bradford, West Yorkshire BD11 2PG,Britain.

	For more information about the Planetary Society, write to: ThePlanetary
Society, 65 N. Catalina Ave., Pasadena, CA 91108, USA.

	Reason not)withstanding, the universe continues unabated, terriblyhuge and
terribly complicated. "The DXers Guide to the Galaxy", whilerelatively short,
and undoubtedly filled with much that is wildlywrong, out)of)date, or of
marginal interest, is nevertheless greatlyinspired by (some might say
plagiarized from) Douglas Adams and "TheHitch)Hikers Guide to the Galaxy".

	We hope he doesn't mind too much.

	For more information on this engrossing subject, consult the booksand
magazines mentioned above. We did to write this. Repeatedly. Pleasenote that
things change rapidly in this field, numbers to computerbulletin boards even
faster. This is as accurate as we could get it onthe day it went to the
printers, in November1993. There wereundoubtedly mistakes then, stuff left over
from earlier editions, andmany changes since. We disclaim all responsibility
for anything thathappens due to these mistakes or changes.

	Should you have any information you would like to pass along, inorder to
rectify or update any of these unavoidable errors, you cancontact Radio
Sweden's DX Editor George Wood through any of thefollowing electronic means:

	CompuServe Mail 70247,3516
	MCI Mail to the CompuServe address
	Internet 70247.3516@compuserve.com
	Fidonet to George Wood at 2:201/697
	Packet Radio to SM0IIN on the SM0ETV mailbox
	Telefax +468)667)6283

	In case of electrical failure the mail will also work:

	Radio Sweden
	S)105 10 Stockholm
	Sweden

