
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 6  Num. 90
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
DOUBLE CROSS
============
*Double Cross* by Sam and Chuck Giancana.
(New York: Warner Books, 1992)
-----------------------------------------
 
Either (a) Salvatore Momo "Mooney" Giancana was lying to his 
little brother Chuck when he told him these stories, or (b) 
little brother Chuck, co-author of this book, is lying to his 
readers, or (c) these stories are substantially correct. I opt 
for "c" -- these stories are substantially correct.
 
The University of Illinois, besides its notoriety as home of "the 
Chief", a student who dresses in the supposed costume of an 
American Indian chief and does funny dances for beered-up sports 
fans, now has another claim to fame: it has its own connection to 
the *murder* of Marilyn Monroe. (Well, actually, it's the Chicago 
Circle branch of the University of Illinois that can add this to 
its resume.) "Mooney said the CIA and Outfit [Mafia] shared the 
talents of a University of Illinois chemist and researcher, a man 
whose lethal chemical concoctions had been utilized many times 
over the years by both organizations."
 
But to understand the why of Monroe's murder, you have to 
understand the "double cross" done by the Kennedy clan to 
Giancana and other mobsters. It is fairly well-known that behind- 
the-scenes moneymen and others of influence will often back both 
candidates in an election. That way, whoever wins, the hidden 
backers still have control; the elected official will be 
"connected". "Being connected meant you did business with the 
Outfit [Mafia]. Leon Marcus was connected. Joe Kennedy was 
connected -- as were Abe Pritzker and Moe Annenberg. According to 
Mooney, all the Presidents of the United States since Teddy 
Roosevelt had been connected."
 
Joe Kennedy, father of JFK, allegedly came to Giancana asking for 
the mob's help in getting his son elected. "[Joe] Kennedy's ties 
to the underworld intersected at a hundred points. Besides making 
a fortune in bootlegging [during Prohibition], Kennedy had made a 
financial killing in Hollywood in the twenties -- with the help 
of persuasive behind-the-scenes New York and Chicago muscle." In 
return for helping get his son elected, Joe Kennedy promised that 
federal watchdogs would be reined in and that Giancana and his 
pals would have things easy.
 
And, according to authors Sam and Chuck Giancana, mobsters *did* 
pull out all the stops to help JFK become president.
 
But here comes the "double cross": Once elected, Giancana and 
associates took it as a troubling sign that their hated nemesis, 
Robert F. Kennedy, was appointed Attorney General. This news came 
to Mooney "like a rabbit punch in the dark... It had occurred to 
Mooney that Joe Kennedy, 'the wily old bastard,' had had a 
brainstorm. By putting Bobby in charge of the Justice 
Department... Bobby would be utilized as henchman, with a virtual 
army of FBI agents at his disposal to destroy all those to whom 
the Kennedys owed favors."
 
"'It's a brilliant move on Joe's part,' [Mooney Giancana] said 
ruefully. 'He'll have Bobby wipe us out to cover their own dirty 
tracks and it'll all be done in the name of the Kennedy <<war on 
organized crime>>. Brilliant. Just fuckin' brilliant.'"
 
Marilyn Monroe, allegedly, had been exploited by both mobsters 
and the CIA to compromise world leaders. This would be 
accomplished, for example, by using surveillance of Monroe's 
liaisons with these leaders as material for subsequent blackmail. 
The authors claim that "Marilyn and the President had been 
connected romantically since the Democratic National Convention 
-- and that in March of 1962, Bobby Kennedy had become involved 
with her, as well."
 
Monroe's career was languishing by June of 1962 and she had 
become increasingly troubled. "Later, Chuck would surmise that 
Marilyn Monroe's knowledge of CIA-Outfit collaborative efforts 
coupled with her increasingly severe emotional instability had 
become a dangerous combination. And that by July, thanks to a 
failing relationship with Bobby Kennedy, she had become not only 
expendable but -- when Mooney received reports of her threats to 
Bobby Kennedy to 'blow the lid off the whole damn thing' -- a 
frightening liability, as well."
 
The CIA, claim the authors, asked Giancana and associates to 
eliminate Monroe. And Mooney saw this also as an opportunity to 
get back at the Kennedys: he apparently hoped to have RFK 
implicated by association in a faked "suicide" of Monroe.
 
On August 4, 1962, Bobby Kennedy visited Monroe in California, 
accompanied by a man who may have been a doctor. Mobsters 
listening in on the meeting say that Monroe became more and more 
hysterical. Kennedy instructed the man with him to give Monroe a 
shot to "calm her down". RFK and his companion then left Monroe 
sedated in her home.
 
The mob's assassins then moved in for the kill: sometime before 
midnight, they entered Marilyn's home. "She struggled at first, 
it was said, but already drugged by the injected sedative... 
their rubber-gloved hands easily forced her nude body to the bed. 
Calmly... they taped her mouth shut and proceeded to insert a 
specially 'doctored' Nembutal suppository into her anus. Then 
they waited."
 
"The suppository... prepared by the same Chicago chemist who 
concocted the numerous chemical potions for the Castro hit, had 
been a brilliant choice. A lethal dosage of sedatives 
administered orally, and by force, would have been too risky, 
causing suspicious bruising during a likely struggle, as well as 
vomiting..."
 
Mooney Giancana had hoped that a proper investigation would have 
unearthed Bobby Kennedy's visit to the starlet's home just prior 
to her death. "[It] might also be suspected that the attorney 
general, along with a confederate, had administered a lethal dose 
of sedatives into Marilyn Monroe's bloodstream."
 
"Instead, the killers listened over their wiretaps in the hours 
following the murder as a series of phone calls alerted Bobby 
Kennedy to Marilyn's death and ultimately mobilized a team of FBI 
agents to avert the impending disaster..."
 
What about the assassination of JFK? Was it the mob or the CIA?
 
"Mooney leaned forward. 'Look, this is one of the Roman gods. 
This one has two faces... two sides. That's what we are, the 
Outfit and the CIA... two sides of the same coin. Sometimes our 
government can't do shit on the up-and-up. Sometimes they need a 
little trouble somewhere or maybe they need some bastard taken 
care of... Jesus, they can't get caught doin' shit like that. 
What if people found out? But we can. Guns, a hit, muscle... 
whatever dirty work needs to be done. We're on the same side, 
we're workin' for the same things... we just look different. 
So... we're two sides of the same coin... If you think we had 
Truman... let me tell you... we got this deal sewn up. Ike, all 
he does is play golf.'"
 
"'So that's what you like about the guy,' Chuck teased."
 
"'Shit, he's a pigeon... it's Nixon that's got the power. He's 
the one with the backing of the big money, like Hughes and the 
guys in California and the oilmen in Texas... Hump says Nixon's 
gonna call us if he needs a little hardball behind the scenes.'"
 
"'From now on you can call me Sam Giancana, civil servant.'"
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

