
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 40
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
THE OKLAHOMA BOMBINGS AND THE RADIOACTIVE COVER-UP
==================================================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
It is now an accepted fact, that the federal government has 
covered up various past radioactive events. Soldiers were exposed 
to the deadly rays, as tests, starting in the 1950s. An entire 
town in Utah -- roughly a third of its inhabitants -- became 
deathly sick or died from radioactive fall-out from Nevada atomic 
testing. The government denied the dangers for some three 
decades.
 
These and dozens of other events, white-washed or suppressed, all 
under the umbrella of so-called "national security". Is not the 
health and security of the people "national security"?
 
After the bombings in Oklahoma City, rescue teams were quickly 
flown in, such as from Maryland. (Bombings, in the plural, is 
used, because experts on explosives contend one so-called 
"fertilizer bomb" did not and could not do the damage as seen in 
pictures.)
 
A team of sniffing dogs were brought in. Thereafter, one of the 
dogs died. Another took mysteriously ill. Some observers became 
suspicious. So the carcass of the deceased dog was dug up and 
scientists examining the carcass stated the dog's lungs were very 
radioactive. They warned those who had buried the dog to now 
quickly cremate the remains using safety precautions as with any 
highly radioactive materials.
 
Some of the rescue team members continue their regular work -- 
but are having extreme health problems. They can barely drag 
themselves to work, coming home mysteriously exhausted. A woman 
rescue team member can no longer do her regular work. She stays 
at home, wasting away. She is afraid to talk except in cryptic 
remarks and whispers. Apparently she is fearful the government 
doctors will cut her off from all medical attention if she goes 
public with what she knows about the bombsites and the aftermath.
 
She apparently is dying from a deadly dose of radioactivity, from 
having been in the bombsites on a mission of mercy. Government 
bureaucrats, of various kinds, insult her, saying, "Get out of 
bed. You're just a malingerer."
 
This is just a small snapshot of a broader happening. The federal 
government is doing this like they have done for decades: lying 
about radioactivity in the name of "national security".
 
One special team -- a very special team -- had a portable geiger 
counter; it went berserk in the bombsites. A member of that team 
whispered into the ear of a very knowledgeable investigative 
journalist, "Tritium", a radioactive material that reacts somehow 
with water (such as the lungs of the sniffing dog).
 
Some try to explain away the cementing over the bombsites after 
quickly demolishing the building. Supposedly done to prevent 
people from falling into the excavation. Why was the federal 
government in such a hurry to flatten the federal office 
building? Was it to prevent detailed examinations of the pillars 
by independent experts? Savvy folks contend that the so-called 
"truck bomb" merely created the pressure, or signal, to pressure- 
or other such- detonators with explosives strapped around the 
building pillars.
 
A fertilizer bomb, some say, could not have so damaged the 
concrete reinforced columns as shown in the pictures of the 
scene.
 
In Paris, the French secret police foiled terrorists planning to 
set off a conventional bomb designed to spread particles of 
deadly radioactive plutonium in the air and in the area.
 
In Moscow, Chechen rebels apparently buried a radioactive device 
as a warning. They were protesting Moscow's bloody suppression of 
dissent in Chechnya.
 
The cover-up of the radioactivity doses received by the rescue 
team people, and others, tends to prove the federal government is 
squelching discussion of what really happened. Apparently, a more 
conventional group of explosives spread radioactive material in 
the air and in the area. It must be quickly pointed out, these 
bombs were *not* atomic devices like at Hiroshima, but rather, 
very sophisticated more conventional explosives designed to 
scatter radioactive material piggy-backed on the devices. Is that 
what some experts mean when they whisper, "particle bomb"?
 
A retired Brigadier General and a retired top FBI official have 
criticized the government version of the Oklahoma tragedy. BUT: 
are these two commentators prevented from discussing 
radioactivity because of any national security oaths they may 
have signed while on active duty?
 
Quite a number of those who were in the bombsites are deathly 
ill, with unspecified illnesses. A public clamor about the truth 
of the bombsites may force the federal government to belatedly 
give them proper treatment that may yet save their lives. They 
may all be dead, from complications of radioactive exposure, 
however, if the government delays telling the truth until years 
and years from now.
 
To paraphrase an old saying, Let the truth be told, though the 
government crumbles.
 
This story based on direct sources, interviews, and data.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
Mr. Skolnick is founder/chairman, since 1963, of the public 
interest reform group, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, investigating and researching judicial bribery and 
political murders. Since 1971, he has been editor of a 5-minute 
recorded phone commentary, HOTLINE NEWS, (312) 731-1100, a 
regular phone call, on 24 hours per day, changed several times 
per week. Since 1991, he has been a regular panelist, now the 
moderator, of a weekly public access one-hour Cable TV Show, 
"Broadsides", available to some 400,000 households. His comments 
appear on several news groups on Internet and on the World Wide 
Web. Office, 8 a.m. to midnight, 7 days/week: (312) 375-5741. 
Call before sending fax. 9800 S. Oglesby Ave., Chicago, IL  
60617-4870.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with either all or 
portions of the preceding. Persons mentioned are invited to send 
their rebuttals, of reasonable length, to bigred@shout.net for 
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

