
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 27
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
HOW TO COVER UP MAJOR TOXIC DUMPING SCANDALS
============================================
By Sherman H. Skolnick
----------------------
 
What is it really all about? "Operation Silver Shovel", FBI 
targeting of payoffs to local politicians in Chicago. Some 
background:
 
The so-called citizens' watchdog groups, with headquarters and 
offices here, are busy raising their own rent and salaries by 
soliciting big bucks from the same corporations that like to send 
their toxic waste here. The money is funneled through foundations 
and other entities fronting for the poison purveyors.
 
The supposed watchdogs are busy pointing to some dump way out in 
the hinterlands, away from big city politics like Chicago. They 
like to spend all their time targeting Waste Management -- now 
called WMX to confuse people -- and Waste Management has been 
tied, reportedly, or got started reportedly, through hoodlum- 
linked waste removers. Waste Management denies this. But 
nowadays, a lot of Waste Management's dumping sites are 
supposedly quite legal. The supposed watchdog groups focus on 
them and forget major corporate dumpers.
 
Example: barrels of dangerous chemicals were dumped near a 
schoolyard in Chicago. The local media all knew about it, but 
remained silent. Our non-commercial, public access cable TV 
program was the only one who dared put video details on the air. 
Why was the press silent? Well, those barrels came, as we showed, 
from Stepan Chemical Co., a unit of theirs makes the secret base 
for Coca Cola (a by-product being cocaine, supposedly for the 
pharmaceutical trade), and Coca Cola is a major advertiser in the 
media. Also, the Stepan family is close with Chicago's Mayor 
Richie Daley, perceived by some as highly corrupt and 
influential.
 
Among those who dump poisons reportedly in the inner city in 
places like Chicago are General Electric and GTE. General 
Electric owns NBC and their unit in Chicago, WMAQ-TV Channel 5, 
here.
 
Carol Marin of Channel 5 is married into the Utley family, having 
a major interest in Channel 5's broadcast license with General 
Electric. An FBI stool-pigeon, a former city official, who knows 
her, leaked the story about payoffs to allow illegal dumping. She 
was interested in prematurely going with the scandal publicity so 
as to obstruct the federal grand jury investigation of her boss, 
General Electric, and their polluting of mostly black 
neighborhoods in Chicago.
 
The whole media narrow focus is on bribes so construction junk 
could be dumped at various illegal sites, mostly black 
neighborhoods. But construction debris can often be recycled, 
making it supposedly legal to dump. Also, construction material 
can seldom be traced back to any sizeable company. So it is safe 
for the press whores, like Carol Marin, to talk about it.
 
In exclusive stories on our recorded phone commentary [(312) 731- 
1100], and on Internet, and our cable TV show, "Broadsides", we 
told how Mayor Richie Daley is a secret owner of Glenrock 
Company, Northlake, Illinois, Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, and 
Indianapolis, Indiana. They are purveyors of construction 
supplies and distributor of General Electric Sealants for 
construction. If you are a road contractor, you'd better, 
reportedly, get your paving cement compounds from Glenrock. They 
are reportedly part of the whole bribery and payoff apparatus to 
get local and state paving contracts. A fellow owner of Glenrock 
has been defrocked former congressman Dan Rostenkowski who 
corruptly arranged federal funding for paving deals in Glenrock's 
three-state territory. With Richie Daley's circle along with 
Hillary Rodham Clinton's brother, Rostenkowski owns Garfield 
Ridge Trust & Savings Bank in Chicago, reportedly tied to money 
laundering of dope loot from the CIA-linked airport in Arkansas 
at Mena.
 
The media has identified a fellow named John Christopher as the 
FBI "mole" who went around setting up city officials with bribes 
to be allowed to dump construction junk illegally. Has 
Christopher been also linked to Glenrock?
 
Christopher reportedly arranged to launder millions of dollars of 
mobster money through First National Bank of Cicero, now the 
flagship of Pinnacle Banc Group. The Cicero bank has long been 
dominated by Bishop Paul Marcinkus, originally from the mob- 
enclave of Cicero, and until 1991, head of the mob-CIA-linked 
Vatican Bank. One of his reported pals is now Illinois State 
Treasurer. (She praised Marcinkus on one of our cable TV shows.) 
Pinnacle is the alter ego and successor to the infamous Bank of 
Credit and Commerce International [BCCI] which handled covert 
funds for CIA and bribed public officials worldwide including in 
the U.S. (So you really thought BCCI had gone under in 1991 as 
stated by the newsfakers.)
 
Reportedly tied to the illegal and corrupt dumping in Chicago's 
inner city black communities has been Gail Ginsberg who has been 
general counsel of the federal Environmental Protection Agency. 
Her husband is Chicago Federal Bankruptcy Judge Robert E. 
Ginsberg, fingered by us as a crooked judge. Together, they are a 
highly corrupt team. The judge for many years was closely linked 
to CIA director Bill Casey.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with either all or 
portions of the preceding. Persons mentioned are invited to send 
their rebuttals, of reasonable length, to bigred@shout.net for 
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

