
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 24
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
AIDS Inc. -- Part 1
===================
There was such a response to the previous CN on the banning in 
the United States of the book *Why We Will Never Win the War on 
AIDS* by Bryan Ellison and Peter Duesberg, that I thought I would 
re-post the following. It is my synopsis of Jon Rappoport's book, 
*AIDS Inc.* Because Rappoport covers Dr. Duesberg's challenge to 
official AIDS dogma, they may be banning his book next!
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
(Disclaimer: "...traditional sexually transmitted diseases [e.g. 
syphilis], and the massive antibiotic-dosing that goes with 
repeated incidents of these diseases, is very immunosuppressive. 
So one doesn't have to swear allegiance to current AIDS research 
to favor safer sex.")
 
 
AIDS Incorporated: Scandal of the Century
-----------------------------------------
 
by Jon Rappoport
 
[Excerpts]
 
-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
+                                                               +
|     "A virus model of causation [for AIDS] does not fit the   |
+  scientific facts. Rather, multifactorial influences are      +
|  the  *sine qua non* of AIDS. The multifactorial model is a   |
+  threat to the well-being of the international                + 
|  pharmaceutical giants, [and] megalithic national research    |
+  institutions... In *AIDS INC.*, human greed for money and    +
|  power is revealed. An 'old boys' network abounds within      |
+  our federally regulated research institutions, and our       +
|  leaders bear the shame... In the entire world today there    |
+  are only approximately 200 scientists who understand the     +
|  inner-circle language and symbols of esoteric virology.      |
+  From sterile and isolated sancta, these 'Priests of          +
|  Virology' have handed down their own interpretations of      |
+  the 'Higher Knowledge' of Nature. These few priests have     +
|  informed the millions of doctors of the world as to 'how     |
+  things are' with this disease called AIDS."                  +
|                              -- Laurence E. Badgley, M.D.     |
+                                                               +
-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
 
The author, Jon Rappoport, an investigative reporter, begins his 
book with the following note:
 
    Many books on scientific subjects illustrate their 
    points with animal-experiments. It doesn't take long to 
    realize, reading medical literature, that you can often 
    take the animal research which agrees with your own 
    conclusions and then just throw out the equally large 
    stack of dissenting opinion. In fact, that is what some 
    AIDS researchers do. So when I mention specific animal 
    research in this book, I do so for one reason: to 
    illustrate that very process, in which experiments that 
    don't prove the party line are elbowed into oblivion.
 
 
"The organization responsible for finding an AIDS cure, NIH 
[National Institute of Health], operates in certain respects like 
any large corporation. Its cast of characters is production- 
oriented, competitive. Top-flight players try to establish 
domination, cut divergent thinkers out of the budget." In many 
cases this has meant that the urge for personal advancement in 
the profession has outweighed concerns about actually combatting 
AIDS itself. Domination of the field by a close-knit cadre of 
"professionals" has resulted in the current situation in which, 
"...one virus, HIV, is now being asked to explain a huge, 
discordant series of physical symptoms."
 
The close-lipped mask of "professionalism" has even caused many 
professionals themselves to fear speaking out about what they 
know. "In the course of writing this book, I found many 
scientists who wouldn't talk on the record. They felt their jobs 
or grant monies would be jeopardized."
 
The author predicts that "...AIDS will probably become the most 
damaging scandal the American medical orthodoxy has yet seen."
 
.................................................................
 
"What most of us know about AIDS comes through our television 
sets."
 
However, "suppose, in the case of AIDS, we are being fed 
'knowledge' which, originally, is based on inaccurate science, 
which is coming from sources which have overlooked very 
significant facts about the hysteria we are calling AIDS."
 
"In that case, we would have, by now, a truly massive amount of 
distortion."
 
We are highly dependent on the mass media and on "experts" for 
the information we receive regarding AIDS. Unfortunately, "...the 
media are not analysts of science. Even writers for the major 
newspapers... take their information direct from the press 
representatives at major federal health agencies... [These press 
representatives] make *no* judgements on the accuracy of what 
they pass on to reporters."
 
The author summarizes the official media position on AIDS as 
follows:
1) AIDS is contagious.
2) AIDS is invariably fatal.
3) AIDS may become another great plague.
 
The author agrees with *none* of the above suppositions.
 
Part of the author's response to the official position on AIDS is 
as follows:
*- There is no disease-entity which ought to be called AIDS. AIDS 
   is not one thing.
*- The HIV virus has never been proved to cause any disease of 
   any kind.
*- The treatment for AIDS patients, AZT, can be dangerous. "AZT 
   is a highly toxic drug that damages bone marrow and causes 
   anemia."
*- No conclusive proof exists that we have a contagious epidemic 
   *caused by a virus*.
*- The AIDS blood tests which have existed up to May, 1988, are 
   unreliable.
*- The various definitions of AIDS, used to make diagnoses around 
   the world, are useless and vague. "They allow almost anyone to 
   be pinned with the label, AIDS... [The various definitions of 
   AIDS] promote vastly increased numbers of AIDS cases, which 
   naturally leads to the wide marketing of highly profitable 
   pharmaceuticals as treatments."
 
The author's definition of AIDS is as follows: AIDS "...is any 
form of severe immuno-suppression, *from any source*, which then 
gives rise to opportunistic infections." For example, "Drugs, 
alone, adulterated, or in combinations, can cause symptoms we 
call AIDS. No virus necessary."
 
The author, Jon Rappoport, charges that researchers have been lax 
in their investigations of AIDS. "For example, in the US gay 
communities... most attempts to understand the so-called 
bathhouse lifestyle have been half-hearted. They have failed to 
examine at close range the incredible parade of immunosuppresive 
drugs, both medical and street-type, which have paraded through 
that scene in historically unprecedented quantities and 
combinations."
 
"Many of the symptoms of what is called AIDS are the symptoms of 
toxic reactions to chemicals, or of already known illnesses."
 
Yet all of these disparate symptoms tend to get lumped together 
under the heading "AIDS." Rappoport thinks this is attributable 
to "the medical research-machine" which is "geared to collect 
symptoms, put them under umbrellas, uncover causative germs, and 
find drugs to treat those germs."
 
Another aspect of this generic application of the AIDS diagnosis 
is psychosomatic. "The death sentence, *You have AIDS*, has the 
impact of a Medieval priest preparing a lapsed believer for Hell. 
In all the hype about AIDS, the severe psychosomatic effect of 
that death sentence is underplayed."
 
.................................................................
 
Rappoport next speaks of what he calls "chemical AIDS." He posits 
that because chemicals often cause side-effects that are similar 
to the AIDS symptomology, there is a high probability that mis- 
diagnoses have occurred. According to the author, there is no 
central core to AIDS, there is "...no central thing which [gives] 
this list of symptoms special meaning."
 
One example which Rappoport gives of "chemical AIDS" is effects 
of using inhalant nitrites, more widely known as "poppers." The 
author thinks that "It is highly probable that the first five, 
the first fifty, the first hundred AIDS cases were all heavy 
inhalant nitrite users."
 
 
Some dangers associated with the use of "poppers" are:
 
*** According to Dr. Harry Haverkos, formerly of the CDC, "The 
    proven potential for cancer causing nitrosamine in bacon... 
    is probably one-millionth of the dose from inhalation of 
    poppers."
 
*** According to Dr. James Curran, Chief of AIDS Branch at the 
    CDC, "It is possible that heavy use of nitrites... may 
    contribute in some as yet undefined way to the development of 
    Kaposi's sarcoma in those already infected with (HIV) or who 
    have AIDS."
 
*** In the Sept.-Oct. 1984 issue of *Pharmacotherapy*, GR Newell 
    writes of the recognized toxicity of amyl nitrite: "These 
    products have been found to be profoundly immuno-suppressive 
    for human lymphocytes in vitro... Recreational use of inhaled 
    volatile nitrites is prevalent among male homosexuals and 
    compounds have been suspected as possible co-factors in 
    Kaposi's sarcoma associated with AIDS."
 
*** According to Dr. Sue Watson, "Our studies show that amyl 
    nitrite strongly suppressed the segment of the immune system 
    which normally protects individuals against Kaposi's sarcoma, 
    Pneumocystis pneumonia, herpes virus, Candida, amebiasis, and 
    a variety of other opportunistic infections. The upshot of 
    this research is that persons using nitrite inhalants may be 
    at risk for development of AIDS."
 
 
"In 1981, the Stanford Medical Laboratories tested some samples 
of different brands of poppers, and found them to contain 
kerosene, hydrochloric acid, and sulfur dioxide, among other 
impurities."
 
According to Rappoport, all of this points to a very good 
likelihood that many of the cases that have been diagnosed as 
"AIDS" can actually be attributed to the effects of inhalant 
nitrites, or poppers.
 
Also suspect in the misdiagnoses of "AIDS" are the 
overprescription of antibiotics. The two principal effects of 
this overuse of antibiotics are...
1) "It creates antibiotic-resistant germs which then become 
harder to treat", and
2) "...it upsets in the patient's body the balance of microbes 
which has been established over the course of evolution."
 
"Physicians, then faced with antibiotics having no effect on 
their patients' infections -- and not realizing that the cause is 
genetic resistance which has been built up by those germs to 
antibiotics -- can in some cases jump the gun and assume the 
patients are so immune-depressed that 'drugs don't work 
anymore.'"
 
"Leading to false diagnoses of AIDS."
 
                   [...to be continued...]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

