
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 46
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
SUBJECT: RECENT OKC BOMBING SPECULATION
=======================================
 
I am at times brought up short by the knowledge possessed by some 
of CN's readers; here I am, thinking I'm telling you what you 
don't know, and you come back at me with "Yes, but there's also 
this and this and this." Such was the case with stories I did on 
the Gulf War Syndrome: readers responded with what Skolnick calls 
"savvy".
 
What follows is a response from a CN reader to recent stories on 
the April 19, 1995 Oklahoma City bombings.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
Subject: Recent OKC bombing speculation....
 
There's been a huff of information on the net recently about the 
Oklahoma City Bombing as a result of Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7 
Num. 44, U.S. GOVERNMENT COMPLICITY IN THE OKLAHOMA BOMBINGS.  
Here basically is my take on that report based on information 
I've received.
 
A couple of weeks ago, I video taped a lecture by Jim Rothstein 
who is a former NYPD detective who seems to have the inside scoop 
on every imaginable conspiracy, and what have you.  He names 
names and seems a credible character.  He says that there was not 
a nuclear explosion (but did not mention if he knew about nuclear 
material being part of the bomb for a "dirty scene").  It seems a 
fact that the bomb sniffing dogs are dying.  I've heard it from 
several reliable sources now. Rothstein believes the dogs are 
dying from cyanide poisoning which was an artifact left over from 
some explosive material if memory serves me correctly (I haven't 
completed editing the video, so I'm just recalling from memory 
what he said about the bombing).  Karl Granse believes they are 
dying from acute radiation posioning from a small nuclear 
explosion in a missle payload 4 feet long and 5 inches in 
diameter shot thru the Ryder truck and exploding in the 
reinforced concrete, similar to a scene from the movie, Clear And 
Present Danger.
 
Jim also mentioned that there were at least 3 satchel charges 
placed on  pillars that he can document (he did not mention 
anything about Xerox boxes).  He also mentioned that there was 
one agent in particular that "they" wanted killed (he mentioned 
the name in the video - I don't recall it now), and so they 
placed one of the satchel charges directly on a pillar that his 
desk was above. Rothstein was still looking into the possibility 
that this agent was told to be expecting an important call at 
9:00 on that day, so that he was sure to be at his desk.
 
As screwy as that Conspiracy Nation report sounds, much of it 
rings true with what Rothstein said.  He mentioned the guys with 
hoops all around downtown OKC looking for the transponder signal 
on the truck which was following its actions that was turned off 
by someone traveling in the Ryder truck.  He also said that there 
were few agents in the Murrah building at the time of the bombing 
only because of the fact that they were all told to find this 
truck, and were out looking for it.
 
There is a *lot* of information out there.  Eric Lighter was 
another guest I videotaped, who processed the paperwork and 
worked behind the scenes at Ruby Ridge and Waco, and has made the 
only credible confession to the OKC bombing in order to prove the 
Grand Jury was tampered with (since Eric wasn't arrested for the 
crime, it shows the Grand Jury hadn't received all of the 
evidence). Lighter said that Tim McVeigh's sister has a letter 
from Tim that says he was a BATF agent.  Eric then went on to 
say, that there were multiple agencies infiltrating militia 
organizations that didn't know of each others activities working 
for the government.  They then set each other up, and something - 
a third unknown - entered into the equation (maybe the double 
agent Skolnick mentioned) and then the building was blown up.
 
According to Granse, who was part of the forensic team that went 
to OKC, they were not allowed to make scrapings off of the 
pillars or take anything with them.  The level of radiation at 
the building was 50% higher than the background levels of 
surrounding areas. After the implosion of the building all of the 
building debris was then summarily buried, fenced, and guarded.  
However, Rothstein has said that the fence was recently removed, 
and the debris is no longer guarded.
 
Something definitely happened there that we are not getting the 
full story on.  I still like the quote of McVeigh's attorney that 
I have in my sig.  I just wish the info he has comes out before 
he is intimidated, paid off, or killed.
 
I'm open to all possibilities, and discounting none at the 
moment until there is more evidence to prove something one way 
or the other.
 
In freedom,
 
Tony Sgarlatti
 
--
tonys@the-truth.org
http://www.future.net/~thetruth/
Home of "Anguish In Oklahoma City" video - facts the press won't touch!  
 
"When you know everything I do - and you will - you will never think 
 of the American government in the same way again." -- Tim McVeigh's 
 defense attorney, Stephen Jones
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

