
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 88
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
The following first appeared as "Conspiracy for the Day", 01/05/94
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
O.K. This one is a real shocker. It deals with the "Franklin 
Cover-Up" and is from the December 13, 1993 *New Federalist*. A 
few things before beginning:
1) The Larry King mentioned in this article is NOT the Larry King 
of CNN fame. The Larry King mentioned in this article is NOT a 
television personality.
2) Remember the Salem witch trials of the 17th century.
3) I neither necessarily believe nor disbelieve the following. I 
repeat portions of the original article and leave it to the 
reader to make their own judgement.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  
 
         Franklin Case Witnesses Implicate FBI and U.S. 
              Elites in Child-Torture and Murder
                    (By Anton Chaitkin)
                         [Excerpts]
 
Paul Bonacci has suffered almost unimaginable mental and physical 
tortures since early childhood. He has continued to give 
evidence, demonstrating the involvement of armed forces and 
intelligence community personnel -- and political leaders 
including former President George Bush -- in criminal acts of a 
truly terrifying character.
 
[In 1988] Federal authorities closed the Franklin Community 
Credit Union in Omaha for investigation. A Nebraska Senate 
investigating committee found that over 100 children could 
testify to an internationally operating child abuse crime ring, 
related to Republican Party activist Larry King [CfD -- Not the 
guy on CNN], Franklin's chief executive. The FBI, Nebraska 
officials, and news media attacked the legislative committee and 
its witnesses in an atmosphere of rising violence and 
intimidation. In the course of this terror, the committee's chief 
investigator, Gary Caradori, was killed when his airplane 
unexplainably disintegrated. [Troy Bonner, one of the witnesses 
in this case, suffered the loss of his brother who] was found 
shot to death at Offut Air Force Base. Alisha Owen, [another 
victim and complainant, suffered the loss of her brother who] was 
found hanged in jail.
 
Lincoln [Nebraska] attorney and former state senator John DeCamp 
has filed suit in the United States court in Nebraska, on behalf 
of Paul Bonacci, the courageous survivor of nearly two decades of 
torture. The suit asks damages from
 
*** the Catholic archdiocese of Omaha, relating inclusively to 
    sex abuse at the Boys Town orphanage;
 
*** Lawrence King, Peter Citron, Alan Baer, Harold Anderson, and 
    Robert Wadman for sex crimes, slavery, beatings, and 
    burnings;
 
*** Omaha police officers for harassment in an attempt to prevent 
    Bonacci from testifying;
 
*** and the Douglas County Grand Jury, its foreman Michael 
    Flanagan, and its special prosecutor Samuel Van Pelt.
 
 
Since the 1992 publication of [John] DeCamp's book, *The Franklin 
Cover-Up*, Paul Bonacci has filed new affidavits and has given 
extensive interviews [which point to further shocking details of 
the alleged cover-up.]
 
The tight little circle of Nebraska corporate and financial 
interests intertwined with the Franklin Credit Union defines the 
first level of national power that is threatened with exposure in 
the case.
 
A clique of freemasons -- the chief executives of Union Pacific 
Railroad, Con Agra, Peter Kiewit and Sons, Mutual of Omaha and 
the Omaha *World Herald* -- served as Franklin's Advisory Board 
and conduited funds from their own firms and from the Boys Town 
orphanage into Franklin's accounts.
 
In an Oct. 28, 1993 affidavit, Paul Bonacci states: "The real 
activity I and Alisha [Owen] and on occasion Troy Bonner... were 
engaged in was functioning as drug couriers and recruiters [of 
children] for Alan Baer and Larry King... [They] were... buying 
and selling large quantities of cocaine into the mid-west and 
using us as 'mules' (drug couriers) to obtain the goods from the 
various airports and get the drugs delivered back to Omaha. Other 
prominent and wealthy Omaha citizens were also involved in this."
 
"...The sex activities we did and were paid so well for were just 
tools to blackmail or compromise or pay off some judge or 
businessman or policeman or politicians generally... here in 
Omaha or at Larry King's place in Washington or other places we 
went."
 
Now-imprisoned Franklin Credit Union manager Larry King became 
infamous as the host of child-sex parties held in the seats of 
power, such as at Republican national conventions. The DeCamp 
book placed King in the middle of "a national and international 
organized crime syndicate, engaged in pedophilia, pornography, 
satanism, drugs, and money-laundering." The use of these crimes 
to "blackmail or compromise or pay off" powerful men leads to 
extremely serious questions of national security.
 
The Franklin Credit Union is widely suspected of being among the 
savings institutions used for money-laundering by the CIA and 
others for Iran-Contra adventures. This precisely defines where 
Omaha's Larry King showed up in Washington, D.C. -- in the 
bizarre homosexual wing of the Republican Party, which managed 
financing and public relations for the Iran-Contra guns for drugs 
trading games.
 
Paul Bonacci has described in detail being dragged to Washington 
for use as a sex toy for Larry King's clients. Bonacci told 
investigators he was in one of the private White House tours for 
young male prostitutes conducted by lobbyist Craig Spence, a 
close political associate of Larry King in the cloak and dagger 
Contras enterprise. Spence turned up dead in a Boston hotel room 
in 1989, soon after his and King's "compromising" business was 
exposed in a *Washington Times* June 29, 1989 story, headlined: 
"Homosexual Prostitution Inquiry Ensnares VIPs with Reagan, 
Bush."
 
From very early childhood, Paul Bonacci was subjected to tortures 
as profound as any the Nazis inflicted on their captives. This is 
not merely a comparison; rather it is an actual continuation, as 
we shall see. From sexual degradation, from witnessing and forced 
participation in Satanic cult murders, Bonacci suffered the 
cracking of his mind into what is called "multiple personality 
disorder" (MPD).
 
Psychiatrists who have treated a growing number of MPD cases, 
victims of Satanic ritual abuse, report an alarming pattern of 
findings in many of their child patients. There is a *structure* 
to the personalities, conforming to what is evidently a 
deliberate breaking and reshaping of the mind. This phenomenon 
was identified to Paul Bonacci by his tormentors, and to other 
victims and witnesses, as the "Monarch" project.
 
The use of mind altering drugs, sensory deprivation, and other 
brainwashing techniques on U.S. citizens as subjects was the 
admitted practice of the CIA, certain military arms and private 
institutions joined in the MK-ULTRA, Artichoke, and Bluebird 
projects beginning in the early 1950s. A national security 
pretext often cited was the need to keep up with the Soviets in 
the race to develop a workable Manchurian Candidate human robot. 
With the "Monarch" (or whatever official title may be attached to 
it) project, the idea is extended to the production of a horde of 
children in whom the soul is crushed, who would spy, whore, kill, 
and commit suicide.
 
The material presented here, on this subject, must be understood 
to be only a bare introduction to a complex story with immense 
political and strategic ramifications. It is a beginning.
 
Professionals probing the child victims of "Monarch" say there 
are clearly two responsible elements at work: the 
government/military, and cooperating Satanic cults. These are 
multi-generation groups, where parents donate their own children 
-- who are proudly called "bloodline" or simply "blood" cultists 
-- to be smashed with drugs and electric shock, and shaped. Other 
children are kidnapped and sold into this hell, or are brought in 
gradually through day-care situations.
 
The disclosures of Paul Bonacci, which jibe with reports of MPD 
professionals in other cases, point to a particular artificially 
induced mental structure as common to many victimized children. 
Space permits only the briefest treatment of this here; this is 
intended mainly to begin to "blow the circuits," so to speak, 
when followed up by professional therapists and investigators.
 
These are some of the widely occurring separate "persons" which 
have been formed under torture, and the corresponding "triggers":
 
*** General personality -- accessible under the code name ALPHA, 
with possible Alpha-001, Alpha-009, etc. "persons" with distinct 
task orientations.
 
*** Sex programs, accessible through code name BETA; particular 
programs are for pornography, acting, oral sex, etc.
 
*** Assassination programs, utilizing very specific modes, and 
espionage, accessible through code DELTA.
 
*** OMEGA, self-destruction programs, ranging from self- 
mutilation to suicide by many different specific possible acts.
 
*** GAMMA, system deception, amnesia and disinformation programs. 
Under this or other codes are track-covering false origins for 
the structure, giving the child memories of tormentors dressed as 
space aliens or Mickey Mouse or in Wizard of Oz costumes.
 
 
An account of the origin of the "Monarch" project has been 
compiled by those who have been debriefing MPD child-victims. 
Nazi experimentation in World War II concentration camps were 
said to have gone beyond simply insane physical tortures. They 
brainwashed people, for military and strategic purposes. After 
the war, Allen Dulles and other Western intelligence people 
brought Nazi doctors out for use in the United States.
 
[...]
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
For more information on the Franklin case, or to purchase John 
DeCamp's book ($12 including postage and handling), write AWT, 
Inc., P.O. Box 85461, Lincoln, NE, 68501. *caveat emptor*
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
"The New Federalist" is published weekly. Subscriptions are 
available at $20 for 50 issues, $35 for 100 issues. Make checks 
payable to "New Federalist" at New Federalist, PO Box 889, 
Leesburg, VA  22075. *caveat emptor*
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

