
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 01
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
      PUZZLING "RELICS" DUG UP IN ARIZONA STIR SCIENTISTS
================================================================
Purport To Chronicle The Arrival Of Roman Jews There In 775 A.D.
----------------------------------------------------------------
             [New York Times, December 13, 1925]
 
[...continued...]
 
              -+- Fought the Toltec Indians -+-
 
"The story commences in A.D. 775 with three people being carried 
forth over the sea to Roman Calalus, an unknown land. Here they 
found a people whom they called the Toltexus, the scientists 
agreeing that the people they found were the Toltec Indians. At 
this period Theodorus was the ruler of these European adventurers 
and was a brave fighter and a man of courage. He carried on much 
warfare with the Toltecs and after ruling for a period of 
fourteen years he was succeeded by Jacobus."
 
"Jacobus ruled the people with a mighty hand and was also a 
constructive ruler, since he rebuilt the city of these people 
that had been razed during the latter part of the reign of 
Theodorus. Jacobus was not king long and was followed by Israel 
the First, who reigned for sixty-seven years, who, in turn, was 
followed by Israel the Second. He ruled six years. Thus the story 
continues on until the year 900 and is chronologically complete 
through the entire period of their existence in America."
 
"The records found by Mr. Manier and Mr. Bent appear to be a last 
record of the people, written in haste at the time when the end 
was approaching. The record does not make clear just what the end 
was, but it has been concluded that these Europeans were 
exterminated by the natives, who, it appears, harassed them and 
made war upon them from the beginning to the end. This conclusion 
has been drawn, since what appears to be the last writing of the 
recorder of these ancient deeds states:"
 
"'The last days have come and the inevitable doom,' and his last 
writing is, 'I am present. The Lord be with you.'"
 
"To this chapter of the story is signed 'O.L.' as well as to all 
of the other parts or crosses, the 'O.L.' being not his initials, 
but rather an insignia of rank."
 
               -+- Evidence of Authenticity -+-
 
"The investigation and excavating is only in the embryo stage, 
and is to be carried on to completion in the future; however, 
much definite information has been brought to light that 
establishes these relics as being several hundred years pre- 
Columbian."
 
"C.J. Sarle, Ph.D., one of the eminent geologists of the 
Southwest, who has spent much time during the last year in 
investigating this find, is of the belief that the articles are 
not only genuine but are as old as the dates would indicate. He 
has established this belief through the geological facts and 
through the location at their respective depths of the numerous 
Indian cultures, the oldest being that of the Hohokums, or the 
great unknown tribe of Indians that inhabited the Southwest in 
prehistoric times. The veneer of the Hohokum culture is a 
considerable distance above the level at which these relics are 
being excavated."
 
"Dean Byron Cummings, Curator of the State Museum, archaeologist, 
and a member of the Faculty of the University of Arizona, who has 
also investigated this problem, is convinced as to the antiquity 
of the finds and as to the articles being genuine. He establishes 
the age of the relics through the Roman script contained upon 
them, which he states has not been in common use since the eighth 
century, and through archaeological and geological evidence. In 
this he is supported by Professor Frank H. Fowler(?) who has 
translated all of the Latin inscriptions on the pieces found to 
date."
 
"Professor Charles T. Vorhies(?), entomologist, who has also 
interested himself in this investigation and has assisted with 
the photographic record, is firm in his belief that these relics 
are not of historic times, are many hundreds years old, that 
there has been no burial of them, and there is no evidence of 
burial, but that the articles have been covered over to a depth 
of between five and six feet by a natural building-up process, 
over a long period of time."
 
"Dean A.E. Douglass of the Steward Observatory and Vice President 
of the Historical and Archaeological Society of Arizona is firm 
in the belief of the antiquity and the genuineness of the finds. 
He has spent much time on the investigation, has taken a complete 
photographic record and has himself excavated part of the 
relics."
 
               -+- Dr. Judd Aids in Excavation -+-
 
"Dr. Neil Judd of the Smithsonian Institution visited the 
excavation and completely excavated two of the articles himself. 
He stated that the articles were very old and that there was 
absolutely no evidence of disturbance of the earth surrounding 
them. He reached this conclusion after chopping these two pieces 
loose with a miner's pick."
 
"All of these men have either excavated some of the finds 
themselves or have been present when relics were excavated."
 
"The time at which the story of these crusaders relates their 
history definitely establishes the period during which they 
inhabited America, and is supported by the eighth century Latin 
script that is used in the inscriptions."
 
"The place from which they came has been established by Laura 
Coleman Ostrander as the Roman Empire, since they call the 
unknown land Roman Calalus. They were designated by her as Roman 
Jews because of the appearance of the Hebrew script of the early 
centuries upon the religious standards, and because of the nature 
and significance of drawings and symbols appearing upon them; 
also because of the fact that the traders of the Roman Empire 
during the first Christian centuries were the Jews."
 
"The excavation and investigation has been carried on by Messrs. 
Charles E. Manier and Thomas W. Bent, with the assistance of John 
S. Bent and the support of the University of Arizona, the Tucson 
Chamber of Commerce and the City of Tucson. All of the 
photography for publication is being done by the Irwin Studios of 
Tucson, Ariz."
 
"This is an announcement and should not be taken as a conclusion, 
since future excavation will no doubt bring to light much more 
evidence of startling and interesting nature, and as the new 
evidence is brought to light a report of progress will be made."
 
              -+- Translation of Inscriptions -+-
 
The inscription of a cross designated as 1.A is translated as 
follows:
 
                             A.D. 900(?), Jan. 1
   We are carried forth over the sea to Calalus,
   an unknown land, to a people ruling widely
   The Toltesus, Silvanus were lead over
   Theodorus brings up his forces at the City
   Rhoda and more than seven hundred are captured
   No gold shall be taken from the city
   Theodorus, a man of great courage, rules fourteen years
   James rules six years
   With God's help nothing need be feared
   In the name of Israel
                             OL
 
           -+- Death of Israel in "the War." -+-
 
The chronology of the supposed dynasties of Calalus is translated 
as follows from another Latin inscription:
 
   From the Beginning. A.D. 790 to 900.
   Nothing but by the cross, by suffering.
   Israel died in the war.
   Pray for the soul of Israel.
   May God be with us as with our fathers.
   May the earth be light unto thee.
   Israel, defender of the faith, adds honor to ancestral honor.
   Israel reigns 67 years.
   Israel II reigns 6 years.
   Israel II started to reign when 26 years old.
   A war of extermination.
   Either to conquer or to die.
   He flourished in his ancestral honor from day to day.
   Prepare for either event but hope is not yet crushed.
   By the grace of God.
   Time having elapsed, from adversity comes
   the source and origin of our miseries, the
   last day comes and the inevitable time.
   I am present.
   The Lord be with you.
 
                  -+- Chronicle is Specific -+-
 
Another of the texts is translated as follows:
 
   Benjamin was king of the people. They came from Seine to Rome. 
   The bravest of the Gauls. He came to the assistance of the 
   people to lay the foundation of the city. He built a wall 
   around the city to resist the enemy. Benjamin mighty in 
   strength he filled the multitude with religion. He was slain 
   by the Thebans. I heard this from my father five hundred years 
   after, behind the mountain. In memory of his father.
 
   860 A.D. Israel the 3rd was banished since he had liberated 
   the Toltesus. He first broke the custom. The earth trembled. 
   Fear overwhelmed the hearts of mortals in the third year after 
   he fled.
 
   They betook themselves within the city and kept themselves 
   within their walls. You shall not bury or burn a dead man in 
   the city.
 
   Before the city extended a plain, hills encompassed the city. 
   It is a hundred years since Jacobus was king. Jacobus was busy 
   in the front line. He attended to everything, fought much in 
   person and often struck down the enemy. Israel gave his 
   attention to the appointment of priests. Life is to us a 
   people of extensive sway.
 
   An unknown land A.D. 895. May I be able to accomplish my 
   endeavors to serve the king. It is uncertain how long life 
   will continue. There are many things which may be said. While 
   the war was raging three thousand men were slain, the leaders 
   with their chiefs were taken, nothing but peace was sought. 
   God ordains all things.
     O.L.
 
A brief inscription which bears no signature refers briefly to 
the transatlantic voyage of the Dark Age Arizonians as follows:
 
   We are carried over the sea to Roman Calalus, an unknown land. 
   They came in the year 775. Theodorus ruled the people.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

