
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 23
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
My apologies for not getting the following out sooner. There is so 
much information now being withheld from the American public that 
it is hard for me, in this framework, to cover it all. There are 
many stories begging to be told that languish, unseen, behind the 
cartoon facade of our "Magic Kingdom" -- Corporate HappyLand, USA!
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
January 27, 1996
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
"Censorship Bypass" Web Site
Address:  http://www.kaiwan.com/~bypass
Contact:  AIDSCENTRL@aol.com
 
NEW WEB SITE ABOUT BANNED AIDS BOOK
 
The United States government hopes you will never read the book 
Why We Will Never Win the War on AIDS, by Bryan Ellison and Peter 
Duesberg.  And, if the government has its way, you will never 
even know the book existed.
 
On December 29, 1995 - just two days before the new year - a New 
York Federal court issued an order that all copies of the book be 
destroyed. This latest order followed on the heels of an earlier 
order, by the same judge, banning the book from distribution 
anywhere in the United States or Canada - even for free.
 
Although he legally cannot distribute the book anymore (pending 
appeal of the decision), author Bryan Ellison is determined to 
alert the public to this blatant cover-up.  "Until this lawsuit, 
most readers didn't know what to think about the startling AIDS 
controversy presented in the book," he said.  "But now people are 
beginning to say, 'there must be something to this.'"
 
Nor is Ellison alone in his activism.  Nationwide, hundreds of 
angry citizens are quickly banding together to form a grassroots 
movement to expose the war of censorship by the AIDS 
establishment.  This growing voters' rebellion was sparked by the 
lawsuit to suppress the Ellison/Duesberg AIDS book, and is a 
reaction to the heavy-handed tactics used to silence dissent.
 
Already, this movement has spawned the "Save The AIDS Book" Legal 
Defense Fund, which is sponsoring a new home page on the 
Internet.  Computer users can now access the "Fabricated 
Epidemic" page at the "Censorship Bypass" world-wide web site, 
where they are finding information on the AIDS cover-up, late- 
breaking news on the legal status of the book, and special 
previews of newly-released government documents and other eye- 
opening materials.
 
What makes the Ellison/Duesberg AIDS book so hotly controversial?  
Ellison and Duesberg belong to the ranks of hundreds of top 
scientists, including Nobel Prize winners and members of the 
National Academy of Sciences at major institutions worldwide, who 
now believe that the Federal government has blamed the AIDS 
epidemic on the wrong cause.  The HIV virus, blamed in 1984 as 
the official cause of AIDS, is actually a harmless germ against 
which the government has wasted over forty billion dollars in 
research and prevention, say these scientists.  In their book, 
Ellison and Duesberg present evidence identifying the real cause 
of AIDS, and warn that the government is placing millions of 
Americans - including babies - in dire risk by refusing to warn 
the public about the truth.  Worse yet, the book documents a 
systematic, nine-year campaign by the AIDS establishment to 
silence these prestigious dissenting scientists.
 
"If the public would find out about this disastrous mishandling 
of the War on AIDS, tens of thousands of government-funded 
scientists and gay rights organizations would lose their funding 
overnight," says Ellison.  "That's why they have to stop our 
book, and that's why we can't let them silence us."
 
The "Censorship Bypass" web site has just come on line, and will 
soon feature internal government memos and other documents never 
before seen by the public.  It will also provide important advice 
on the real prevention of AIDS - which is radically different 
from the government "party line."
 
Supporters and organizers of the "Save The AIDS Book" Legal 
Defense Fund expect this web site to help build public momentum 
for an official Congressional investigation of this AIDS scandal.
 
The "Censorship Bypass" web site address is: 
http://www.kaiwan.com/~bypass.
# # #
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I also recommend the following books which offer dissenting 
opinions to current HIV/AIDS dogmas, true-isms, myths, etc.:
 
*AIDS Inc.* by Jon Rappoport. Foster City, CA: Human Energy 
   Press, 1988. ISBN: 0-941523-03-9
 
*AIDS And The Doctors Of Death* by Alan Cantwell Jr., M.D. Los 
   Angeles: Aries Rising Press, 1988. ISBN: 0-917211-25-1
 
*Poison By Prescription* by John Lauritsen. New York: Asklepios, 
   1990. ISBN: 0-943742-06-4
 
*Queer Blood* by Alan Cantwell Jr., M.D. Los Angeles: Aries 
   Rising Press, 1993. ISBN: 0-917211-26-X
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
  For information on how to receive the new Conspiracy Nation 
  Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

