
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 7  Num. 87
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
[The following is a  transcript  of  a recorded phone message put
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up
the Courts [CCCC]."  (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]
 
Hi!  Sherman  Skolnick,  Citizens'  Committee  to  Clean  Up  the
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby.
 
Some  claim  former  CIA  Director  William  Colby  was murdered.
Others claim that was *not* his body they buried.
 
Colby was a contributing editor to a  British-linked  newsletter,
Strategic Investment.  His data showed Clinton White House Deputy
Counsel  Vincent  W.  Foster,  Jr.,  was  murdered,  part  of  an
international  bank  spying  scandal -- *and*, Foster and Hillary
Rodham Clinton reportedly sold U.S.  nuclear missile secrets to a
foreign power.
 
One  of  Colby's  close  friends  is  John  DeCamp, a lawyer from
Lincoln, Nebraska.
 
  JOHN DeCAMP:  He  was  like  a  father  to  me,  a very close
  friend.  And of course we know he was head of the CIA  and  a
  lot  of  other things.  Did he die accidentally as is said --
  heart attack and a stroke, and fell out of his boat -- or did
  he get killed by somebody?  My personal belief is that he did
  not die accidentally.   He  was  in *fabulous* condition.  He
  was in absolute, impeccably perfect condition.   And  he  was
  more cautious than Jesus Christ Himself when it came to being
  careful.
 
  SHERMAN SKOLNICK:  Mr. DeCamp, were some of those POWs in the
  dope trade used as "mules" and therefore cannot come home?
 
  JOHN  DeCAMP:   I  think  he  suggested  that...  No. He went
  stronger than that.  He made  it  very clear there were a lot
  of Americans involved in the dope trade who chose to stay, he
  believed.
 
  SHERMAN SKOLNICK:  Did you know about the interview with your
  close friend William Colby at CBS  network,  the  60  Minutes
  program, just prior to his disappearance?
 
  JOHN  DeCAMP:  He told me he had done a number of interviews,
  yes.
 
  SHERMAN SKOLNICK:  Is it  your  knowledge or opinion that the
  POWs that remained in Southeast Asia, that got into the  dope
  trade,  that  they got involved with dope traffic with George
  Bush,  Richard  Armitage,  and  General  Colin  Powell  being
  involved reportedly  in  that  dope  trade.   Do  you have an
  opinion or knowledge about that?
 
  JOHN DeCAMP:  I have an opinion:  I happen to agree with you.
  But I don't want to go into why and how and everything else.
 
  SHERMAN SKOLNICK:  If you saw the 60 Minutes program  that  I
  referred  to,  do  you  believe that that was a watered-down,
  censored version of the  interviews  with your friend William
  Colby?
 
  JOHN DeCAMP:  Yeah.  That was a watered-down version.  You've
  got to understand Bill Colby.  Bill Colby believed, above and
  beyond everything, that the greatest thing that this  country
  had, and the most *dangerous* thing this country had, was the
  CIA:   the  greatest  thing for protecting us from "blah blah
  blah" and  winning  the  Cold  War  and  all  that;  the most
  dangerous thing because it had the ability and had  developed
  the  processes of operating outside the law.  He was the one,
  if you'll remember, that  exposed  it.  And he believed, more
  than anything else, that it wasn't  *government*  that  would
  control things, it was the free press.
      I  predict,  within the next year or so, it will come out
  that he *also* is the one that engineered the release of  the
  Pentagon  Papers and made that possible.  People used to say,
  "Your press members are owned by the CIA."  He'd be the first
  to tell you, "Absolutely.   We  owned  every one of them", or
  "almost every one of any value" would be his phrase.  And  we
  did control them.
 
 
Among the motives to murder William Colby:
 
#1)  He was about to state that the U.S. government has lied by
saying there are no POWs left in Southeast Asia.
 
#2) Colby knew, from inside  data, that Foster was murdered and
that the Clinton White House has covered it up.
 
#3) Colby directly, and through his wife, a super bank  expert,
knew  Household  International  reportedly secretly transferred
$50  million  of  federal  funds   to   try  to  cover  up  the
embezzlement of an Arkansas Savings & Loan, incriminating  Bill
and Hillary Clinton.
    Colby   was   general   counsel  of  the  CIA  proprietary,
Nugan-Hand Bank, and had  a  similar  secret role with the bank
that is its successor, Household  International  and  Household
Bank  --  the  world  headquarters being in Prospect Heights, a
Chicago suburb.
    Details of Household's high crimes  are being covered up by
a crooked chief bankruptcy judge in Chicago, John D.  Schwartz,
in case number 84 B 10338.
 
In Chicago, see us on cable tv,  channel  21,  9  pm  [cst]  most
Monday evenings.
 
New message Friday [312-731-1100];  we  change it several times a
week.
 
Donations  appreciated.   Citizen's  Committee  to  Clean  Up the
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby,  Chicago,  [Illinois] 60617.  For the
latest  on   courts,   banks,   espionage   agencies,   political
assassinations, and the news media.  On 24 hours a day.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
I neither necessarily agree  nor  disagree  with  either  all  or
portions of the preceding.  Persons mentioned are invited to send
their  rebuttals,  of  reasonable length, to bigred@shout.net for
probable distribution.
                         -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-Chief
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe cn-l My Name" to 
listproc@cornell.edu          (Note: that is "CN-L" *not* "CN-1")
-----------------------------------------------------------------
    For information on how to receive the improved Conspiracy 
  Nation Newsletter, send an e-mail message to bigred@shout.net
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Want to know more about Whitewater, Oklahoma City bombing, etc? 
(1) telnet prairienet.org (2) logon as "visitor" (3) go citcom
-----------------------------------------------------------------
       See also: http://www.europa.com/~johnlf/cn.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------
          See also: ftp.shout.net  pub/users/bigred
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

