

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 77
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

SHERMAN SKOLNICK -- CHICAGO'S VERY OWN
======================================

Having covered the phone messages put out by Sherman Skolnick and 
the Citizens' Committee to Clean up the Courts [CCCC] for some 
time now, I began to have more curiosity about them.

Then, a reader wrote to ask, "Just who, or what, is the 'Joseph 
Androcetti Affair'?"

So I decided to write to Mr. Skolnick with a few questions. Just 
this afternoon I have received a hurriedly scribbled reply, 
giving a little info, thanking me for my efforts, and promising 
"further data later." Also enclosed were excerpts from a 1991 
interview with Mr. Skolnick in which he details the 
Bush/Saddam/BCCI connection. I hope to cover this interview in a 
future "Conspiracy Nation."

Anyway, the brief answers to some of my specific questions are as 
follows:

CONSPIRACY NATION:
Have you ever written any books?

SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
A book I wrote, *History of Air Plane Sabotage*, was stopped in 
publication.

CONSPIRACY NATION:
Do you still think that Clinton will be ousted soon?

SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
First Gore, then Clinton.

CONSPIRACY NATION:
Any opinion about the new Whitewater prosecutor, Starr?

SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Starr? Who knows?

CONSPIRACY NATION:
You have often referred to the "Joseph Androcetti Affair". Could 
you give the correct spelling and also give a thumbnail sketch of 
just what it is?

SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
The spelling is, "Andreuccetti". Further data later. Many thanks 
for your efforts.


I was quite happy that Mr. Skolnick took a little time to respond 
and I am hoping he can indeed send further data.

One other thing I forgot to mention: Mr. Skolnick sent a summary 
of recent stories from the CCCC phone line. These stories have 
been covered in full by CN, so I won't rehash them. However the 
summary which I received also has a bit of biographical data, 
included below:

    Since 1963, Mr. Skolnick has been founder/chairman of a 
    public interest group, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
    the Courts. Since 1971, editor of *Hotline News*. Since 
    1991, a panel commentator on a popular public access 
    Cable TV Show, cablecast weekly.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

