

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 67
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with Linda Thompson on the *For the People* 
radio show, Feb. 11, 1994. Host is Chuck Harder.]

[Continued...]

CHUCK HARDER: We're back, with Linda Thompson. By the way, before 
we run out of time, if you are a computer user -- this is a 
computer bulletin board, is it, Linda?

LINDA THOMPSON: This is a computer bulletin board *network*...

HARDER: O.K.

THOMPSON: ...across the country.

HARDER: O.K. All right. And the phone number is 317-881-2743? Is 
that correct?

THOMPSON: Right.

And to system operators: If you are already a fidonet sysop, we 
have a 1-800 number for system operators to become nodes. And we 
pay you for any subscription, so that... to help offset your 
expenses. So if there's not a node local to anybody that wants to 
call us, if you know a fidonet sysop, tell 'em they can carry AEN 
[Thompson's network] for free, and be paid for doin' it.

HARDER: All right. But that's 317-881-2743.

THOMPSON: That's right.

HARDER: O.K. And that's a bulletin board computer system.

Uh, O.K....

THOMPSON: We put up the news, like the press release about Reno 
and McGaw... all of that: we get it out as soon as we get it.

HARDER: But essentially, they have taken this ammunition, now, 
off the market.

THOMPSON: That's right.

HARDER: And, and what is it again? What kind?

THOMPSON: It's the 7.62 x .39 steel core ammo. They're calling it 
armor piercing, cop-killer bullets. But I got a clue: They're 
saying that the reason that they've done it is, now there's a 
handgun available that will fire this ammo. So that makes it fall 
under the "cop-killer bullet" provision and lets them ban it. But 
any rifle will pierce a Kevlar vest. So that's bogus. Their whole 
basis, their whole rationale for this, is totally bogus.

HARDER: All right. Barbara is in Palm Desert, California. Go.

BARBARA: Hi, Chuck and Linda. I just got some information this 
morning. I haven't been able to verify it, but uh, Michael 
Bend(?) was collecting signatures...

THOMPSON: Oh I have talked to Michael 3 weeks ago and verified 
it. And he's been on radio. He's the fellow that was doing the 
"Clinton for Campaign" petition [?? Maybe she means the "Impeach 
Clinton" petition].

BARBARA: Yeah.

THOMPSON: And his... Three weeks ago, on Tuesday morning, at a 
quarter to seven, he woke up to black helicopters coming into his 
neighborhood, that [unclear] the neighborhood. And he went back 
to bed. Fifteen minutes later, a house 3 doors down from him 
that, from the air, looks identical to his, was on fire.

BARBARA: Yep.

THOMPSON: Uh, 5 or 6 carloads of white sedans with men with 
cellular telephones got out of the cars and arrived. One of them 
told the fire marshall that it was a lightning fire. All the 
neighbors believed that these were insurance adjusters or 
somebody, that had showed up. Late that afternoon they arrived 
with a truck. It took all of the appliances out of the house, and 
the people that lived there went with them. The next day, a 
construction truck with a guy arrived. But the guy was all clean 
and shiny and the equipment was new and he didn't look 
construction at all. The flatbed trailer took everything out of 
the roof and attic of the house, that had burned. Mike went over 
and talked to him and said, "Who are you?" And he said he was 
from the crew that would be rebuilding the house. Now this is 
less than 24 hours after the fire.

So all the neighbors were, at that point, marvelling at what 
wonderful insurance this lady must have, to get this quick 
response.

Well Mike hired a private investigator. And they went over on the 
roof of the house and found that there were 4 holes in the roof. 
Uh, there was an antenna to a chimney with 2 ground wires running 
off of it and the inspector said those wires had not been burned 
and that this could not have been a lightning fire. And 
apparently there were 4 holes in the roof, and Mike believes that 
the helicopters fired on that roof and that it was intended to 
hit his house. And it certainly sounds like it, from all of the 
things that he's investigated about it.

HARDER: It's kind of like the old Mafia "enforcers," you know, 
that used to go and do lead pipe "jobs." And every once in a 
while, they'd ring the wrong doorbell and they'd beat up the 
wrong guys. So they'd have to just go do it over again. You know, 
got the wrong guy.

Thanks for the call.

Linda Thompson, thank you for being with us. [Clears throat] 
Excuse me. "Waco II -- The Big Lie Continues" is a marvellous 
videotape. How long is it gonna run? What's the time gonna be?

THOMPSON: Close to 2 hours.

HARDER: Almost 2 hours. [Harder gives info on how to get the 
videotape.]

Thanks, Linda.

THOMPSON: Thank you.

HARDER: We'll talk again, kiddo. All the best, everybody. May God 
bless.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

