

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 34
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

ASSASSINATION AS A TOOL OF FASCISM
----------------------------------

(...continued...)

JOHN JUDGE: [...continues...] It's interesting too that a lot of 
those homeless people are Vietnam veterans. About 70% of the 
homeless on the East coast, in fact, are veterans. Which is an 
aspect that's been ignored, besides the suicides, tremendous 
unemployment rates and long-term problems, because these wars 
*are* genocidal wars. They have a little different technology, 
they drop the oven out of the air instead of picking the body up 
and putting it in the oven, but it's still genocide.

If the little countries of the world, where we are pushing 
ourselves around, could get into a court and tell what we've been 
doing there, it would not look so different from the Nuremberg 
trials; in fact, I suggest to you that it's worse.

My friends say to me, "If it's Nazi Germany, who are the Jews?" 
{1}. Well the Jews are the Central Americans. Some of the *Jews* 
are still the Jews if they don't have enough money and prestige 
and aren't being used for the current time in the reactionary 
processes. Women. {2}. The disenfranchised. The first people that 
Lori [a previous speaker] mentioned that were killed: the 
psychiatric inmates are certainly an expendable population. The 
institutionalized people: the elderly, children in institutions, 
prisoners, and people in the military. The veterans are guinea 
pigs; after they get out of all that military stuff they're just 
used by the system further.

So there are people dying every day. And if you don't add up the 
deaths, you don't get the right total, you don't get the sense of 
what's happening.

And then they say to me, "Yeah, but we don't live in terror. We 
live good." Well if you were a good German and you went along 
with the program and you looked the other way when they came and 
got the neighbors {3}, you lived good too. They were looting the 
whole world like we are. We're 6 percent of the population, 
consuming 60 percent of its energy, 30 percent of its raw 
materials coming right here, into this society. All this wealth 
doesn't come from out of some magic well in Kansas marked 
"Capitalism." It comes from tentacles of exploitation of labor 
and resources all over the world. And because we exploit those 
societies, they're in worse shape and we're in better shape.

There's enough to go around. There's no shortage. There's 
surplus, in fact, if it weren't being used for war; and weren't 
being diverted into cash crops instead of growing food, everyone 
could eat, everyone could live comfortably. In fact, probably on 
a third of the budget they spend on warfare in the world. There 
is a surplus; the surplus has to be manipulated in order to 
*disappear*.

But there are populations, Rand Corporation studied them. In '68 
they did a study saying that half of the world population, over 
two billion people, *had to go*, in order to make it economically 
*comfortable* for the elites. They studied setting up martial law 
in many countries where it came to pass: the Philippines, Yemen 
and South Korea, Vietnam, Canada even, and eventually the United 
States.

How do you set up martial law here? You do it with a terrorist 
scenario. {4}. I'd suggest a *nuclear* terrorist scenario. You 
have Abu Nidal, who's really Oliver North in drag. They say *I'm* 
paranoid. I don't have an eight foot security fence around *my* 
house. And he's working internationally with the people that 
financed Nidal. It's not *mano a mano* it's *have him over for 
dinner*. That fence is up for us, in case we figure out who Ollie 
North really is and what he did to us.

You have this so-called "terrorist," you know, the guy with the 
pop gun that terrorizes you. The nuclear weapons don't terrorize 
you, the state control doesn't terrorize you, the massive death 
and genocide that goes on in your name doesn't terrorize you. You 
don't know who the enemy is, and so you're afraid of a guy on an 
airplane with a pistol. But that's a terrorist, and you're 
shaking in your boots, and now *they* are going to be said to 
have a nuclear weapon. So, "Oh well, what can we do? We have to 
suspend civil liberties. We have to put people in camps. We have 
to do *whatever* is necessary in order to stop this 'threat'."

So you come up with a scenario that's good enough, and then you 
move. And they have the plans, they know how to move, they have 
it down to the neighborhood level. *If you buy the lie*; if you 
don't identify who's oppressing whom and who the enemy really is. 
Believe me, you are *not* in danger of Abu Nidal, or the PLO, or 
whoever the Terrorist of the Month is supposed to be. Your life 
is not hanging on a hinge. Yeah, maybe if you travel 
internationally all the time you'll be on the wrong plane at the 
wrong moment. But I doubt most of you are jet setters.

The threat comes from someplace else. And even the people who 
take over the plane, in my experience, have ties to these same 
military intelligence networks.

But they *kill* people. And at the same time it *is* possible to 
expose how they do it; and to break the cycle of the lies; and to 
catch up with it; and to understand who's assassinating whom, and 
how. Because the techniques work and they use them over. They're 
not that hard to figure out, once you understand the personnel 
and the pattern.

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

[Transcript of a talk given by John Judge at a one-day conference 
entitled "The Fourth Reich in America." A transcript of the 
entire conference, "The Fourth Reich in America," is available 
from Flatland Books, P.O. Box 2420, Fort Bragg, CA  95437.]

--------------------------<< Notes >>----------------------------
{1} "If it's Nazi Germany, who are the Jews?" One obvious answer 
that Judge omits would have to be the blacks. This is backed up 
by statistics such as blacks on death row, black unemployment, 
blacks in prison. Note that I am not saying that we should 
therefore implement quotas or whatever. I don't know what the 
solution is to America's traditional scapegoating of blacks.
{2} "If it's Nazi Germany, who are the Jews? .... Women." Yes and 
no. The other side of the coin would be the FemiNazis. Who are 
the FemiNazis? According to Texe Marrs, "They are unlike anything 
the world has ever experienced. They're ruthless, shrewd and 
calculating -- and they've got a stranglehold on the White 
House.... [The FemiNazis,] the coven of brutally correct women 
who now rule over us."
{3} "...when they came and got the neighbors." Like in Waco, for 
instance.
{4} "How do you set up martial law here?" Another scenario would 
be the collapse of the dollar, stocks plunge, economic disaster, 
and here comes FEMA and the U.N. "peacekeepers."

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

