

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 53
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

WAS POLIO VACCINE CONTAMINATED?
(From *The Spotlight*, July 18, 1994)

Washington, D.C. -- The National Vaccine Information Center 
(NVIC) {1}, operated by Dissatisfied Parents Together (DPT), is 
calling on Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Donna 
Shalala to immediately conduct new, independently monitored 
testing of archived samples of polio vaccine for possible 
contamination with monkey retroviruses {2}.

The consumer advocate group is also requesting that genetic 
analysis be conducted on any extraneous viruses found in the 
vaccine lots to determine their potential link to human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), also a retrovirus, and the origin 
of the AIDS epidemic.

In response to an investigative article in *Redbook* magazine 
questioning the link between AIDS and contaminated polio vaccine, 
NVIC/DPT is demanding that the government make public all results 
of past and future testing of polio vaccine samples and other 
biological products for retroviruses or simian (monkey) virus 
contamination. NVIC/DPT, which represents families of children 
injured or killed by vaccines, is also pointing to a 1992 article 
published in a prominent medical journal, *The Lancet*, in which 
American lawyer Walter S. Kyle presented evidence linking 
contaminated polio vaccine to the origin of the AIDS epidemic.

                 -+- What Did They Know? -+-

Kyle, who has represented families of individuals killed or 
injured by polio vaccines for the past 17 years, suggested in the 
*Lancet* article that U.S. government and drug company scientists 
knew as early as 1976 that polio virus grown on the kidney 
tissues of the African green monkey and used in the manufacturing 
of polio vaccine was contaminated with simian retroviruses. In a 
1993 letter to Dr. Philip Lee, assistant secretary of HHS, Kyle 
requested testing of oral polio vaccine lots, especially those 
manufactured between 1976 and 1985, for possible retrovirus 
contamination.

NVIC/DPT Co-Founder and President Barbara Loe Fisher said, 
"American citizens, who are required by law to be vaccinated, 
have the right to demand honest answers from the government about 
whether contaminated polio vaccine may have caused AIDS, and the 
best and only way to address this issue is to immediately test 
vaccine samples in the archives of the U.S. government. It looks 
like scientists in the FDA knew a long time ago that polio 
vaccine grown on African green monkey kidney tissue was 
contaminated with monkey retroviruses but they continued business 
as usual and did not require manufacturing processes to be 
changed."

                   -+- Be Concerned -+-

"This is a legitimate cause for public concern because 
retroviruses have been found to cause leukemia and cancerous 
tumors in lab animals as well as, over time, to cause cellular 
and genetic changes in the host they infect. The public deserves 
a serious investigation into vaccine development, manufacturing 
and testing in this country."

In addition to the *Lancet* and *Redbook* articles, a lawsuit was 
filed on February 14 in New Jersey on behalf of an American child 
who has AIDS with no known risk factors. In the lawsuit, American 
Cyanamid, through Lederle Laboratories, was charged with 
manufacturing oral polio vaccine contaminated with retroviruses.

Oral polio vaccine made in the kidney tissues of the African 
green monkey, especially between the years of 1976 and 1985, was 
ingested by millions of children (some of whom may have had open 
mouth sores at the time of vaccination or already had compromised 
immune systems) as well as ingested by an unknown number of 
homosexual adults whose doctors used the vaccine in the U.S. and 
Africa to treat herpes lesions.

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} The National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC), operated by 
Dissatisfied Parents Together (DPT), is a national educational 
organization founded in 1982 by parents whose children were 
injured or killed by the DPT vaccine. The organization, which 
worked to create the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 
1986, serves as an information clearinghouse on vaccines and 
childhood diseases and is dedicated to preventing vaccine 
injuries and deaths through public education.
   For more information, write to NVIC/DPT, 512 W. Maple Ave., 
Suite 206, Vienna, VA  22180  or call 1-800-909-SHOT.

{2} The AIDS/Polio Connection. In *Rolling Stone* magazine, March 
19, 1992 ("The Origin of AIDS"), "...Reporter Tom Curtis contends 
the African outbreak could be due to polio vaccines contaminated 
with 'SV 40,' the simian monkey virus. Between 1954 and 1963, 
thirty million Africans were injected with the polio vaccine." 
[From *Queer Blood: The Secret AIDS Genocide Plot* by Alan 
Cantwell Jr., M.D. Los Angeles: Aries Rising Press, 1993. p. 58.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------
The *Spotlight*. An alternative newspaper, published weekly. 1 
year's subscription, $38. 1-800-522-6292. Visa/Mastercard.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

