 

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 18
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

POTPOURRI

[CN Editor -- I have so much conspiracy type info lying around 
that I decided I would have a sort of "grab bag" of info for this 
edition.]

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

But the most seductive thing about [drug] prohibition is that it 
keeps us from having to confront all the other little addictions 
that get us through the day. It's the NutraSweet in the coffee we 
use to wash down the chocolate mousse; a dad's "Just say no" 
commandments borne on martini-scented breath. "Don't do drugs," a 
Members Only ad advises. "Do clothes." Well, why "do" anything? 
Why not live more lightly, without compulsions of any kind? Then 
there's TV, the addiction whose name we can hardly speak -- the 
poor man's virtual reality, the substance-free citizen's 24-hour- 
a-day hallucinatory trip. No bleary-eyed tube addict, emerging 
from a weekend-long catatonia, has the right to inveigh against 
"drugs."  [From "Kicking the Big One" by Barbara Ehrenreich. 
*Time* magazine, Feb. 28, 1994, p. 70.]

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

This [being made to testify under oath] is the great tiebreaker, 
this is the one thing that Bill Clinton has feared since 1988, 
and it is the one thing that will force him to resign before he 
is exposed for past and present criminal wrongdoing. Bill Clinton 
was involved with people who gave cocaine away to young girls. 
Bill Clinton was involved with people who were laundering drug 
money. Bill Clinton is involved with people who have destroyed 
records relative to an ongoing grand jury. Bill Clinton and his 
subordinates have obstructed an ongoing investigation. Bill 
Clinton has lied about his role and knowledge about the 
obstruction. And the greatest sin of all, he has lied to the 
American people and to the people of the world. He has lied so 
much in fact that our nation is tarnished before world leaders. 
[From "The Truth Will Set Us Free" by Larry Nichols. *For The 
People, News Reporter*, May 30, 1994, p. 13.]

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

First it was a section of California that wanted to secede, then 
Maryland's Eastern Shore; now native Hawaiians say they want 
their land, and rights, back. "We're past the point of just 
sitting down and begging government agencies for rights to the 
land," said a University of Hawaii instructor. "Now Hawaiians are 
trying to assert themselves physically." The state has scheduled 
a fall referendum on the sovereignty question for descendants of 
the original Hawaiians. [From *The Spotlight*, June 20, 1994.]

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

Allen Dulles is dead, but that doesn't mean that the idea of 
controlling people's minds and behavior is dead, and I still 
think that is a goal. And when you look at what I believe is a 
tilt for Global Government you see where that would be even more 
intensified now. We had gas, for example, this was way back in 
the late '50s, early '60s, we had gas that you could use that 
could completely change people's desire to fight or to flee. The 
army's chemical-biological warfare research labs, I think that 
kind of stuff still goes on. They have to have human guinea pigs 
to practice on because animals other than human do not produce 
the kind of comprehensive results that they need. So when it 
comes down to human behavior, they probably take street people. 
There are kids missing off the streets of America every year. 
Some of them may end up being sold for body parts down in 
Guadalajara Mexico, and a few other places for rich people who 
don't want to wait in line for organ transplants. And some of 
them undoubtedly end up in Satanic rituals. But many of these 
ritualistic abuses may really be governmental operations. I think 
MK-ULTRA exists today. [Lt. Col. "Bo" Gritz, from an interview in 
*Flatland* magazine #10, p. 51.]

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

   Army documents detailing secret Cold War-era research on 
biological warfare will be released, the Pentagon announced.
   The Army recently acknowledged that it sprayed zinc cadmium 
sulfide, a fluorescent chemical, over Minneapolis and numerous 
other areas of the country in the 1950s and 1960s.
   Several women who attended a Minneapolis elementary school 
that was in the path of the spray in 1953 say they have 
experienced health problems including sterility, early cancers, 
disabled offspring or miscarriages.
   "We're prepared to release everything," Army spokesman Norm 
Covert said Wednesday. "That means we have to find it. If we can 
find it, we'll release it."
   Sen. Paul Wellstone met with Defense Department and Army 
officials Wednesday and said they made a "strong commitment" to 
full disclosure.
   [From the June 16, 1994, Champaign-Urbana *News-Gazette*.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

