

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 61
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

The local all-volunteer radio station, WEFT 90.1 FM, has a show 
that runs from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. every Saturday (Saturn's Day) 
morning. The show, called "News from Neptune," takes its title 
from a remark made by some television producer when asked about 
getting Noam Chomsky to appear on a show: "What? We can't have 
him on. That guy's from Neptune." The idea is, that if you try to 
talk seriously about a subject, beyond the pre-arranged, 
allowable limits already put in place by the mass media, you are 
going to sound (to the already brainwashed) as if you are from 
Neptune.

The following is an excerpt from the July 23, 1994, "News from 
Neptune" broadcast. Co-hosts are Carl Estabrook and Paul "The 
Truth" Muth.

[...]

PAUL MUTH: Well, um. We have just a couple of minutes. Any, any 
"nuggets" at hand? I'm sure there were quite a few other things 
that uh, could be commented on today.

CARL ESTABROOK: I have one "nugget" that really is quite that, 
too. If you didn't see, on Tuesday evening, Michael Moore's 
remarkable program on NBC, called "TV Nation" {1}, keep your eyes 
open for it again.

Michael Moore made "Roger and Me" and was *briefly* the editor of 
the magazine *Mother Jones*, until the rich liberals who own 
*Mother Jones* threw him out. Um, but he's a *very* clever man. 
And he has made, remarkably enough on network TV, the most 
incisive political comment in an hours...

MUTH: And there are 5 more shows before he's cancelled too, 
apparently! Unless they do something...

ESTABROOK: Yeah. They're not only very good, they're very funny. 
I recommend it highly. See "TV Nation" when it comes on on 
Tuesdays.

MUTH: Really some inspirational sorts of setups [laughs]. I like 
the one, "How would you say, in Spanish, to the fellow on the 
line there, 'You're fired, when you get your hand out of the 
machine.'"

ESTABROOK: Right.

MUTH: You get your hands out of the machine, you're fired.

ESTABROOK: Yeah. It was interesting to read the reviews in the 
[New York] *Times* and places like that. Because they were um, 
sort of *abashed*! I mean, respectful of the class and humor with 
which the things were made, but you could see they were clearly 
astonished that this stuff had got on network TV [laughs]. And as 
you say, it will be interesting to see how long it runs.

MUTH: I think they might be collectors items.

ESTABROOK: I think they might be.

MUTH: I guess there's 6 more. I think 7, all told, that he's 
being allowed.

ESTABROOK: Well. One wishes him luck.

[...]

-------------------------<< Notes >>-----------------------------
{1} "TV Nation." No connection with "Conspiracy Nation." Tuesday 
evenings, 7 pm cst, NBC.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

