

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 50
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with the former marketing director of the 
Arkansas Development and Finance Authority, and former associate 
of Bill Clinton, Larry Nichols. This interview took place on the 
May 5, 1994 "America's Town Forum" radio show, hosted by Tom 
Donahue.  The show is broadcast most weekday evenings at 7 pm 
(cst) on shortwave frequency 5.810 mHz. (Nichols speaks via 
telephone with Donahue.)]

[...continued...]

TOM DONAHUE: Interesting.

Let me ask you. Back to the... Most Americans, including yours 
truly, don't know a lot about bonds and how that works. So 
there's a real mystery here. And that's one of the reasons that 
L.J. Davis was clubbed over the head and they went through his 
notes {1}, because he was getting too close to the bonds scam.

Um, how did that, how did that work? Were there any legitimate 
bonds produced? Where does it stand today?

LARRY NICHOLS: Well, there were some. In '89, when I left, they 
had a *rash* [of bond issues]. I mean they'd only made 5 bond 
issues from '85 to '88 when I was there and up until after I 
left. Then in '89 they made a whole bunch of legitimate bond 
issues. Because they knew it [an investigation(?)] was coming.

Let me give a simple explanation, and it's the best I can do:

You go to ADFA, and you want $1 million. They say, "O.K. We'll 
loan you $1 million." ADFA goes ahead and advances you that $1 
million, because, you see, to do a bond issue you've gotta give 
those bonds to a bonding agency, and then *they* gotta sell 'em. 
And then as they sell 'em, they give the money back to ADFA. And 
then people pay... You getting the loan, you're supposed to pay 
payments on that loan, which is really paying back the people, 
with interest, that bought the bonds.

So what they did is, you had borrowed $1 million, ADFA would give 
you the $1 million, they would give the bonds to Lasater to sell. 
When he sold 'em, he would give the money back to ADFA.

But you can't find one person, one individual, that ever bought 
the bonds. {2}. I mean, you would think with all the bond issues, 
millions of people, for hundreds of millions of dollars, would've 
had to of bought *a bond*. One of 'em.

DONAHUE: Uh, you would think so.

NICHOLS: But you can't find it. Anywhere. {3}.

DONAHUE: O.K. Let's go to Jeff, in Pensacola, Florida.

Jeff, go ahead.

Hi, Jeff. You're on the air.

Uh, Jeff, in Pensacola, ask your question, please.

JEFF: Yes. Um, with all the people who are so immoral and so 
corrupt, in leadership positions in Washington now -- the 
majority of them probably appointed by Clinton or brought in by 
his family -- what are the chances of doing a clean sweep and 
getting everybody out, including Rockefeller? What, what 
mechanics are necessary to remove every one of them?

And then there's an aside, very quickly. There's something that 
seems to have been overlooked by all the media, and that is those 
8 people that were arrested out in California, in a national 
park, doing military maneuvers. If they were foreign nationals or 
skinheads or American Nazi party or something, I think we would 
have heard a lot about that. And since it wasn't said that they 
were, I'm assuming that they were patriots, preparing for the 
downfall of the united States.

DONAHUE: Jeff, we're gonna have to get to that another day. 
That's not Larry's issue, but I thank you for raising it. And 
we'll get back to that another time.

But there is no mechanism that if Clinton goes, so does all his 
administration and cabinet members and friends. Uh, that would, 
that would be, I guess, a personal choice they'd have to make if 
they want to leave with Clinton when he resigns or is impeached.

NICHOLS: Well there *is* a mechanism.

DONAHUE: There is?

NICHOLS: Yessir. You see, if your audience will raise their voice 
and force the congressional hearings, then coming up in November 
we have the ability, if people will just not forget, to change 
the complexion of the entire system up there. Now I have very 
little *confidence* in that happening...

DONAHUE: What I'm saying, though... Now we *can* eliminate some 
senators -- a third of them will be up for re-election, uh we 
have all our U.S. representatives. But we're talkin' about 
cabinet posts. We're talkin' about appointees. Unless we... And 
I'm sure there's gonna be some "fingered" and some *will* go down 
in smoke. But the majority of them, if there's no evidence to 
support wrongdoing, uh those cabinet members will stay there and 
assist Al Gore, unless Al Gore wants them replaced.

NICHOLS: Well I don't think that'll happen because, you see 
Clinton will resign. He can be granted a pardon. {4}. But the 
rest of these people will be investigated for years to come. And 
they'll start dropping like flies.

DONAHUE: So there probably won't be a *clean* sweep, but there 
could be some that will be cast out as well.

NICHOLS: That's right. Now. If the first and second-tier level 
people... I believe firmly that they'll still have control of 
whoever's sitting there. And I don't know what to do about that.

DONAHUE: O.K. Let's go to Chris, in Bridgewater, Massachusetts, I 
believe.

Uh Chris, are you there?

CHRIS: Yeah, hello.

DONAHUE: Hi.

CHRIS: Hi. First of all let me say, I'm not a fan of Clinton. I'm 
a firm Republican. But I have to ask: I've been listening to your 
program for awhile this morning, um and I've been listening to 
your guest. Um, what's the evidence, where's the hard evidence? 
First, I heard you say, you're talkin' about somebody handin' out 
cocaine to 14-year-old girls. Where's the evidence for that? I 
heard ya talk about somethin' else, and you say you didn't have 
your facts and figures right in front of ya. If you're gonna come 
on a nationwide show, shouldn't you of had that information 
available, be able to cite chapter and verse, as it were?

Again, you know, we're gettin' bound up in so much conspiracy 
here. Um, Clinton's, he's not a good man. I'm sure he'll be 
turned out in '96. And...

DONAHUE: '96! You think he'll last 'til '96?

CHRIS: Yeah. I guess I'm one of the "fools" out here that thinks 
he's gonna last until '96 and he'll be turned out in a normal 
way. I don't...

DONAHUE: A normal way.

CHRIS: A normal way, i.e. with the voters.

But I just wanna know, with all these allegations and all these, 
um "there is a conspiracy," and "14-year-old girls gettin' 
cocaine at parties,"....

DONAHUE: O.K.  O.K.  You're so smart that you had to repeat 
yourself. But I thank you.

CHRIS: You're welcome.

DONAHUE: Let's, um let's address that. Because, Larry, your last 
visit, and I think today's visit, you have brought forward an 
*incredible* amount of documentation. But let's talk about the 
drug issue, and, and who are you relying on? What evidence 
supports the fact that, um the drug allegation that's been 
raised?

NICHOLS: Number one, the evidence towards the 13 and 15-year-old 
girls does not come from me. It comes from the investigator that 
made the case on Lasater. And it was in those statements that 
Lasater, obviously, plead... pleaded guilty.

DONAHUE: That was in that *case*. So you're quoting from material 
that could be obtained from the case.

NICHOLS: Absolutely.

DONAHUE: All right.

NICHOLS: Now. Relative to Clinton's role at ADFA, let me say to 
that caller: I was there, you weren't. I was the marketing 
director, charged with the task of damage control. How could I do 
damage control at that agency, which is documented, if they 
didn't show me what was goin' on that somebody would find out, so 
that I could be prepared?

DONAHUE: And also it's important, it's important to make mention 
here, that you don't make a dime off these videos. Uh, 
distributors like myself, we make a few dollars. So does the 
Citizens for Honest Government that produced this. You're not 
paid for any of the talk show appearances. You're trying to 
protect the well-being of yourself, and your family and friends. 
And the best way is through public disclosure and putting the 
spotlight on darkness which is occurring today, as we speak.

Uh, furthermore, you brought suit against Bill Clinton. You 
*have* brought forward evidence, and you're working with many 
others that are. So there is no hidden motive here that *I* can 
see.

NICHOLS: No. And if you'll notice: All of the stories that I tell 
ya about, just like the one that Ambrose Pritchard this weekend 
from the [London] *Sunday Telegraph*. {5}. If it doesn't come out 
Sunday, then that caller and your audience can say I'm 
discredited.

                       (to be continued)

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} "...L.J. Davis was clubbed over the head and they went 
through his notes..." From the *Wall Street Journal*, March 23, 
1994, entitled "Censored in Arkansas":

    He [L.J. Davis] was returning to his room at Little 
    Rock's Legacy Hotel about 6:30 after an interview on the 
    evening of Feb. 13. The last thing he remembers is 
    putting his key in the door, and the next thing he 
    remembers is waking up face down on the floor, with his 
    arm twisted under his body and a big lump on his head 
    above his left ear. The room door was shut and locked. 
    Nothing was missing except four "significant" pages of 
    his notebook that included a list of his sources in 
    Little Rock.

{2} "But you can't find one person, one individual, that ever 
bought the bonds." So *that* would be how the drug money was 
laundered. The money from the cocaine sales would be given to 
Lasater and Lasater would give the money to ADFA, claiming it 
came from bond sales. The "loans" from ADFA would be how the 
money would be able to appear "legitimately" in someone's bank 
account. The "sleight of hand" here would be with Lasater getting 
money from drug dealers and then claiming he had sold bonds. 
*Then*, when Bill Duncan of the IRS tries to investigate, he is 
ordered to stop when he gets too close to Arkansas. The topper is 
that, because the scheme is a bit complicated (most of us are not 
financial wheeler dealers), even if they get caught, the average 
person doesn't understand what exactly they did. Slick, Willy. 
Very slick.

{3} From Vol. 1 Num. 39 "Conspiracy Nation":

    NICHOLS: And uh, what they were doing, they would issue 
    a bond and let's say give, like I told your audience 
    before, Webster Hubbell, who created ADFA -- I mean 
    drafted it, legislated it, got it passed -- he and his 
    father-in-law, Seth Ward, got the first loan at ADFA for 
    $2.85 million. You can't find that he ever paid anybody 
    back.

    Other, other recipients of "loans" were Don Tyson, Tyson 
    Industries, International Paper.

So we have the ABCs, (A) Lasater, allegedly, performs the 
"sleight of hand" where incoming drug money becomes incoming bond 
purchase money, i.e. Lasater, allegedly, lies and says the huge 
sums of cash are from persons who have purchased the bonds, (B) 
the drug money, disguised as being from bond purchases, flows 
into ADFA, and (C) ADFA makes "loans" to various "Friends of 
Bill." Slick, Willy. Very slick.

{4} "He [Clinton] can be granted a pardon." Nonetheless, it's 
outrageous that Clinton should be granted a pardon. If he gets 
away with his alleged crimes, then what is the deterrent for 
future presidential crooks? "Oh well, they always pardon us 
Presidents, so why not break the law?"

{5} "...this weekend from the [London] *Sunday Telegraph*." Given 
that this broadcast was May 5, 1994, that would mean the story 
relating to Patsy Thomasson should have appeared in the May 8, 
1994, London *Sunday Telegraph*. Unfortunately I don't at the 
moment have access to that issue.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

