

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 65
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with Linda Thompson on the *For the People* 
radio show, Feb. 11, 1994. Host is Chuck Harder.]

[Continued...]

CHUCK HARDER: All right. Thelma is in Las Vegas, Nevada. Go 
ahead, please.

THELMA: Oh yes, Chuck, I would like very much to talk to your 
*wonderfully* *brave* guest.

HARDER: Well, go ahead, please.

THELMA: Yes, Linda.

LINDA THOMPSON: Yeah. (I'm not brave.)

THELMA: You know, I can't say how proud I am of you! And you are 
the *bravest* person. You're a "female Rambo"!

HARDER: [Laughs]

THELMA: I'll tell ya. And you know, I'm doing my share. We've 
made up, my husband and I, thousands of badges, uh large badges 
to wear, saying "Waco Massacre," with the blood dripping down at 
the top and the fire, flame coming up from the bottom. And I 
passed out about a thousand. And I noticed they weren't wearin' 
'em, so I started sellin' 'em! And now they're wearin' 'em.

THOMPSON: Yeah.

THELMA: And, uh my husband wanted me to ask you if you think that 
maybe the reason for Waco was so they could have that landing 
strip for their large planes to bring drugs in.

THOMPSON: Well, I'm not certain about that. We've been working on 
a connection between drug- and gun-running out of Waco and *why* 
there may have been this raid. I don't have any information that 
directly connects these things. There's a lot of speculation that 
could be made. And there has... There's definitely involvement of 
Delta Force special forces, SEAL Team 6 special forces -- which 
*do* have elements of the CIA in them. And if you've done any 
investigation into the drug- and gun-running in this country, you 
know that the CIA and our military have played a large role in 
doing that. Now we have information that indicates that a CIA 
operative named Faheed Hasim(?) was running drugs out of the Waco 
airstrip there at TSCC(?).

THELMA: Uh-huh [understands].

THOMPSON: But I don't have a direct connection to the Branch 
Davidians. And there did used to be a methamphetamine lab at 
Mount Carmel, but that was before Koresh came there.

So there's a lot of stuff in the background that looks 
interesting. But no direct connection, no.

HARDER: All right. All right let's go ahead on to the phones 
here. And I thank you very much for calling, Thelma.

Now, let's go ahead and conference in Pennsylvania. Ken, go 
ahead.

KEN [apparently drunk]: How we doin'?

HARDER: Go ahead, please. Fine.

KEN: Uh, first of all. I don't know if your guest has ever read 
Hitler's book. He talks about the population of the world will 
triple by the year 2000.

HARDER: O.K.

KEN: O.K.? And you remember back in 1956, Kruschev beatin' his 
shoe on the pulpit. He said, "We will bury you by the billions, 
and we won't have to fire a shot."

THOMPSON: He said, "We'll bury you from within."

HARDER: Yeah. Uh, yeah. You're right. And I thank you, Ken.

O.K. 1-800-TALK-YES is our telephone number. Let's go to Richard. 
Richard, go ahead.

RICHARD: Hey, thanks. I had a question. She had made a comment 
about 7.62 x .39 ammo, and the ATF.

THOMPSON: Um-hmm [affirmative].

RICHARD: Could you clarify what you said? Did you say it had been 
banned?

THOMPSON: Right. John McGaw released a public announcement the 
other day banning 7.62 x .39 ammo.

RICHARD: Can he do that, legally?

THOMPSON: That's *my* question. That's why I wanted to bring a 
lawsuit about it. I don't think he can.

HARDER: Yeah. O.K. How can the listeners to this broadcast verify 
that?

THOMPSON: Um, I've... If you'll wait a second, I'll pull up the 
press release and tell you when it came across the AP [Associated 
Press] wires.

RICHARD: You know how many felons that makes in the U.S.?

THOMPSON: Well. I don't know. There's nothing mentioned in this 
press release about whether there's a grandfather clause that, if 
you already have it [i.e. the ammo], you can keep it. Um, and 
that was an interesting... That was one of the things I wanted to 
chase down this afternoon. Um, that... (Hang on. I'm pullin' this 
up on the computer.)

HARDER: O.K.

THOMPSON: But they definitely did ban it. And there was no 
mention of whether, if you already have it you can keep it, or... 
Here we go: Ammo Ban. All right, it was on February the 4th. It 
was an AP release. It says, "ATF director John McGaw has ordered 
that 7.62 x .39 steel core bullets could no longer be imported or 
sold commercially... And said that existing stocks could be 
exported or sold only to law enforcement or government agencies."

So basically, it's not saying that you can't have what you've got 
-- I misread that -- but it is saying you can't buy it anywhere 
and you can't sell it anywhere in this country.

RICHARD: So that's the end of it.

THOMPSON: Uh, "McGaw wrote to all federal firearms dealers this 
week that over the past several years the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms has allowed the importation..." -- *allowed* 
-- notice that.

HARDER: All right. Do me a favor. We're right up against a break. 
When we come back, Linda, go ahead and look at that thing and 
we'll, we'll ask you to read it on the air. 'Cause it's probably 
of great interest to a lot of our listeners. And I thank you for 
the call, sir. We'll be right back. Don't go away.

                    (to be continued)

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

