

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 55
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with Linda Thompson on the *For the People* 
radio show, Feb. 11, 1994. Host is Chuck Harder.]

[Continued...]

CHUCK HARDER: Linda Thompson is our guest.

And Linda, what you're saying is that from your, from your 
perspective, when Gore and Reno and that bunch had their press 
conference... and it is the worst nightmare of those who *do* 
want to be able to own their own firearms.

Uh, we understand that in New York, a number of years ago, New 
York said to people who had either semi-automatics or that type 
of thing, "Just register them with us. Let us know that they're 
there. Don't worry. We'll never bother you." And now, we 
understand that they have actually gone house-to-house and picked 
up these weapons.

Have you heard that?

LINDA THOMPSON: Oh absolutely. They use the 4473s [CN -- 4473s, 
apparently some type of federal form] as a "shopping list."

Now the new crime bill, the Feinstein amendment to the crime bill 
bans semi-automatic rifles; everything but the M-14, which um, 
Ruger(?) was very successful in lobbying for his own exception. 
But all the other semi-automatic rifles, any gun, any handgun, 
that holds more than 10 rounds, any magazine that holds more than 
10 rounds, are banned.

This was a very important piece of legislation that was virtually 
*ignored* by the NRA [National Rifle Association], for instance, 
and groups that are supposedly lobbying for gun rights.

Now once that passes, there's a so-called "grandfather clause" 
that says, if you already own these guns you can keep 'em, but 
you have to register them. And if you don't register them, you're 
a felon! Now how are they going to find out, number one, that you 
already have 'em? For instance, in a state like Indiana you could 
buy them from another person and you don't have to register 
anything. Um, so how are they gonna, first of all, find out that 
you already have them, to enforce this? And number two, what are 
they gonna do with the information about who already *does* own 
them?

Now then. This week, a companion piece of so-called "law," that I 
don't consider law at all, was when John McGaw, the head of the 
ATF, former head of Secret Service, and former person in charge 
of Presidential bodyguards -- he's now in charge of ATF -- passed 
an administrative ruling banning .762 ammo. .762 x .39 ammo is 
completely banned in this country right now. Now a lot of people 
don't know that either.

Now that .762 ammo is used in AKS rifles, it's used in Mach-90s, 
it's used in SKS rifles... essentially all of the rifles that are 
the ones listed in the Feinstein amendment.

HARDER: Um-hmm [understands].

THOMPSON: Now. There's 2 ways that they can demand search and 
seizure of your home: if you've been at a gun show and bought 
this ammo, if you try to buy ammo. If you don't register your 
guns, the very fact that you have the ammo now is illegal.

Um, so they can... This is going to be, I believe, a pretext for 
doing house-to-house searches. And we already have them saying 
then, on Thursday, they're going to *do* house-to-house searches! 
This is happening. This is going to come down *now*. I don't 
think we need it written on our foreheads to realize what's 
happening here.

HARDER: All right. What does the government want? They, they want 
all our guns, don't they?

THOMPSON: Uh, yeah. They want to disarm the American public, and 
that accomplishes several purposes. One, they're not ever gonna 
be able to disarm the American public. One of the polls that they 
*don't* tell us is the CBS poll that says 67 percent of the 
American public *will not* give up their guns. Uh, so they know 
that. They're provoking a confrontation. First of all, we all 
know that it is unconstitutional. What is being done here is 
completely unconstitutional. Our second amendment rights were 
never for hunting purposes. I've looked up and down the 
Constitution, and I can't find the word "hunting" or "sporting" 
in it anywhere. Our forefathers, if you read *any* of the 
documents that are available about the writings of the founders 
of the Constitution, things that they were *most* afraid of was 
an over-powerful, centralized government...

HARDER: Um-hmm [agrees].

THOMPSON: ... a government that would disarm the public. They 
were afraid of a standing army [i.e. a permanent army], for fear 
that that army would be used on the American public. And 
basically, the reason that they wrote the 2nd amendment (and at 
that time, every man between the ages of 17 and 45 *was* "the 
militia." So when they wrote that "a well-regulated militia being 
necessary to a free state," they were talking about the entire 
population of the united States. That was the "militia."), "the 
right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be 
infringed," that was, that is an absolute right. It's one of the 
rights that is articulated as existing without any government 
approval. You have that right, period, in this country.

So everything that's being done on gun regulation is 
unconstitutional. And they... These people do not care! They're 
very brazen about it. They're *promoting* a confrontation between 
people that understand the Constitution and are demanding their 
liberty. Because that one point is so essential to liberty. The 
very reason to have guns is to *fight* tyranny! That's the 
purpose of... in our Constitution.

HARDER: All right. But you and I both know, let's just be honest 
here, you and I both know that the united States government plans 
to disarm the united States of America, to take the guns from the 
people...

THOMPSON: I don't think they do plan to disarm the people. I 
think they plan to use it as a method of confrontation and 
provocation.

HARDER: All right. Let's... all right. What do you mean by... all 
right, what do you think the government is trying to do?

THOMPSON: They're trying to identify who will fight the New World 
Order. And the best way to do that is target people that will 
stand up and fight for their rights. You know, you shoot into a 
crowd and see who screams. Well, they fired several different 
volleys. What is getting the biggest reaction around the country, 
causing controversy? Well gun control. What's the issue that's 
most likely to provoke a confrontation and most likely to cause 
chaos and terror and so forth in this country? Well they've found 
it. This is the issue.

HARDER: This is the hot button. Well what frightens me, very 
bluntly, and concerns me: First of all, the united States of 
America *needs* taxpayers. And when people are out of work and 
they become welfare cases, they cannot pay their taxes. As you 
know, Zenith closed, essentially, their last plant in the united 
States.

THOMPSON: But they must do this. They must make us all dependent 
on the government teat.

HARDER: O.K. But my question is this: What they're going to wind 
up doing is having it so that we have no guns, and there is no 
economy {1}. So what do we do then, just starve at gunpoint?

We'll be right back with Linda Thompson.

                    (to be continued)

-----------------------<< Notes >>-------------------------------
{1} "...we have no guns, and there is no economy." Exactly. What 
we are moving to is a society in which half of us are imprisoned 
and the other half are guards. *That* is not going to work. At 
some point something is going to have to give. We cannot have a 
society where everyone is either a guard, a prisoner, a 
bureaucrat, or a politician.
   Along these same lines, you may ask: Well why not just make 
*everyone* a policeman? We all know that policemen always obey 
the law, so why not just make us all policemen? *That* would 
solve the crime problem!

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

