

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 44
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with the former marketing director of the 
Arkansas Development and Finance Authority, and former associate 
of Bill Clinton, Larry Nichols. This interview took place on the 
May 5, 1994 "America's Town Forum" radio show, hosted by Tom 
Donahue.  The show is broadcast most weekday evenings at 7 pm 
(cst) on shortwave frequency 5.810 mHz. (Nichols speaks via 
telephone with Donahue.)]

[...continued...]

TOM DONAHUE: Jeff, in Dallas. Go ahead.

Ask your question, Jeff.

JEFF: Uh, yes. Mr. Nichols. Do you have in your possession the 
paperwork that shows that the money that came from ADFA *did* go 
into Clinton's political campaign? Can you prove that? And if you 
can, then how come they're not asking you [for it?] And I know 
they're calling you a liar, and the media's just spinnin' this 
out of control...

DONAHUE: O.K. Thanks, Jeff.

Do you, do you have documentation for this?

LARRY NICHOLS: As a matter of fact, I do, sir. And that's why I'm 
striving so hard to get a congressional hearing. Because I don't 
think the documents need to be put out in the media, and I can 
explain that.

DONAHUE: Why hasn't Fiske come after your documents?

NICHOLS: Robert Fiske better not come after *my* documents. 
Because if he tries to seal them, the next day, when he serves me 
a subpoena, the next day it'll be all over the media. Everything 
*I* have will be out.

DONAHUE: I see. So you'll get... So it's a "win-win." {1}. You'll 
get the publicity that you've been asking for all along... beyond 
talk radio.

NICHOLS: Well, I don't want publicity. I want the information 
out.

DONAHUE: None of this is to benefit *your* personal career 
endeavors, but to get this information out so we know the truth. 
Hopefully....

NICHOLS: Absolutely.

DONAHUE: We'll be right back with Larry Nichols, and your calls. 
1-800-298-8255.

[...Commercial break...]

DONAHUE: We're back. Tom Donahue, "America's Town Forum," 
patriotism in action.

Back to the phones we go for Larry Nichols. Let's start off with 
Harold, in Flint, Michigan. Go ahead, Harold.

HAROLD: Yeah. Um, Tom. I'd like to ask your guest if 
[unintelligible] with the gun control bills.

DONAHUE: Say, say again?

HAROLD: I'd like to ask your guest if he thinks we'll be able to 
beat the sickness in the White House on the gun control issue.

DONAHUE: O.K. Thank you, Harold.

Um, it looks like our Congress is trying to disarm the American 
people, and they're getting very close, with the numbers today, 
and you should be calling your congressman to say, "Hell, no." 
You will not tolerate *any* diminution of our rights. No 
infringement, period. Any, any weapon can be an "assault weapon," 
and any weapon could be a weapon on the battlefield. {2}.

Go ahead, Larry.

NICHOLS: Well, I believe, if y'all know what I know about Bill 
Clinton and his agenda: One of the things that they *have* to do 
is disarm us. The next thing they have to do is "educate" our 
children, the way *they* want them educated. And I just pray that 
Congress -- and I have no reason to believe in 'em any more -- 
but I just pray that they'll stop this madness. Because when they 
take our "assault weapons," that's step one. What will they take 
next? When they get health care through -- and you heard Jay 
Rockefeller say, "I don't care what the American people want, 
we're gonna get it anyway." What happens when they get health 
care? They have access to yours and mine and everybody's medical 
files.

DONAHUE: Well if they're gonna take away "assault weapons," the 
weapons in general, then let's take away Bill Clinton's security 
team. Let's take away Secret Service. Let's take the weapons that 
protect our congressmen...

NICHOLS: That's right.

DONAHUE: ...Huh. Fat chance.

NICHOLS: You see, if it's O.K. once you take the "assault 
weapons" away, nothin' will happen to ya, then take 'em away from 
the security guards.

DONAHUE: That's right. Bill Clinton should volunteer and step up 
to the plate first. And then we'll believe he's serious about gun 
control and disarmament.

Let's go to Bob in Golden, Colorado. Go ahead, Bob.

BOB: Hello, Larry.

NICHOLS: How do you do, sir.

BOB: I have heard you on other broadcasts where Danny Casalero's 
name was mentioned and the Octopus Conspiracy which attempts to 
describe these upper levels of... You talk about Clinton being on 
the fifth level down. This Casalero story was talking about maybe 
the second tier up. Can you speculate or describe the operatives 
in that story that Casalero was developing at the time he was 
murdered?

NICHOLS: Whoa! Uh Bob, some of what -- it is "Bob," right? Hello?

DONAHUE: Bob's listening on his radio.

NICHOLS: O.K. I don't know how to say this. There are some people 
in that network that I obviously know. And I know them through 
knowing the *contras*. But as you know, Mr. Casalero's dead. As 
you know, he was dealing in matters that I do not deal in. Um, I 
think you will find, when all of this settles -- if it settles 
and we get a congressional hearing -- a lot of the unanswered 
questions about all of the tentacles, where they go, where they 
lead, will start coming into light.

But now let me give you the negative to that. As I've already 
explained, long before these people at the power positions start 
getting exposed, they will make the "offer" to Clinton in an 
attempt to squash it at that level. And likely as not, they may 
be, they may win at that.

DONAHUE: Larry, the next hour we're gonna talk to you about Terry 
Reed and John Cummings' book, *Compromised: Clinton, Bush and the 
CIA*. We touched on Mena. We need to go back to that and Dan 
Lasater, CIA drugs-guns connection, and how both Presidents -- 
the one prior, too, George Bush, and Bill Clinton -- were co- 
opted.

Larry Nichols has been our guest this hour. He'll be with us next 
hour on many of these fine stations. Stay tuned. Our talk line 
number is 1-800-298-8255. Clinton's Circle of Thugs, or 
"Clinton's Circle of Power," is available. Just write to us at 
America First. For $20.

                       (to be continued)

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} "...it's a 'win-win.'" i.e., "Heads, I win. Tails, I win." He 
wins no matter if Fiske seals his documents or not.
{2} Regarding "assault weapons." The ban on such weapons didn't 
do Nicole Simpson any good. Whoever murdered her used a knife. A 
gun of some type might have given *her* a chance to defend 
herself however.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

