

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 91
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

First, a message from the Editor-in-chief:

There are several ways to get back issues of Conspiracy Nation 
and Conspiracy for the Day. Here are some current sites offering 
back issues (note that in the following, the information I have 
is subject to change and may not be entirely accurate):

1) Send message "help" (no quotes) to InfoBot@andronix.org
This site has past issues of Conspiracy for the Day.

2) Back issues of Conspiracy Nation, starting with July 1994, are 
available via anonymous ftp from ftp.prairienet.org (cd 
pub/lists/conspire). For novices, "anonymous ftp" means you log 
in under the name "anonymous" then give your e-mail address as 
the password. Once you have changed directories to 
pub/lists/conspire, use the "ls" command to see what's there, 
then use the "get" command to get the file. Files may have a "Z" 
extension, which means you will have to use the "uncompress" 
command once they have transferred to your site.

3) Selected back issues of Conspiracy Nation are available via 
gopher to gopher.a-albionic.com (Marketplace --> New Paradigms 
Project --> Is Society Non-Pluralistic --> Conspiracy for the 
Day/Conspiracy Nation).

4) Selected back issues of Conspiracy Nation are available via 
anonymous ftp to ftp.a-albionic.com (cd pub/vendor/a-albionic). 
Note that I have been personally unable to investigate this site, 
due to slight problems with the prairienet system.

5) Back issues are available via World Wide Web at 
http://www.lighthouse.com/~ake/DepthProbe/index/home.html


My thanks to the individuals involved who have kindly offered to 
make these back issues available.

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

AIDS: What the Government Isn't Telling You
by Lorraine Day, M.D.
(Part 2)

Dr. Day promises to "avoid jargon and excessive footnotes" and to 
write "in language a lay person can understand". For that, this 
reader is grateful. I have found that many "experts" speak a 
language akin to throwing magic dust, rattling magic bones, and 
muttering incantations. It is as if they are *afraid* to let the 
public in on what exactly is going on. It is as if they are 
*afraid* of full disclosure. One wonders why that would be.

Indeed, in a larger vein, Dr. Day herself complains about what 
she terms "AIDSpeak". This is a sort of politically correct 
attitude one must have in regards to AIDS. Never mind whether or 
not it's true, we must be sensitive. Being sensitive has become 
more important than the truth.

Dr. Day dared to say, "But gee. The emperor has no clothes." For 
that she was subjected to a calculated smear campaign by a 
shadowy group that has determined the "correct" way to deal with 
AIDS; the "correct" way to think about AIDS.

Among the heresies that Dr. Day dared utter which so infuriated a 
certain clique now holding a stranglehold on what is being 
allowed into the discourse, we have the following:

   *** HIV infection in homosexual men at high risk may occur at 
least 35 months before antibodies can be detected.

   *** Tests of surgical gloves don't detect holes smaller than 
10 microns in diameter, which would allow AIDS and other viruses 
to come into contact with the skin.

   *** The AIDS virus may actually be able to enter the body 
through skin contact.

   *** The AIDS virus can survive on a dry surface for as long as 
seven days.

   *** The AIDS virus survives freezing.

   *** The AIDS virus can transmit through saliva.

   *** The AIDS virus can transmit through oral sex.

   *** The AIDS virus has been found and judged infective on 
needles in amounts so minute that they looked like "clean" 
needles.


I have often said that the vastness of the hidden corruption in 
this society absolutely boggles the mind. Dr. Day seems to have 
experienced a similar revelation. Because of our refusal to face 
the truth, because of the LIES with which we are surrounded, 
because we are like fish swimming through an ocean of lies yet 
denying that there is such a thing as water, "...the pit we dug 
ourselves is deepening and what will tumble in, the mind refuses 
to believe."

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

