

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 78
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[CN Editor -- I cannot vouch for the accuracy of *all* of the 
following. It may or may not be true, I just don't know.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts [CCCC]." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

A strange operation is the John D. and Catherine T. McArthur 
Foundation, headquartered in Chicago.

It was founded by him. At one time, its sole asset was stock in 
his insurance company, called Bankers Life & Casualty, which he 
owned outright.

Because of the insurance industry muscle, and the foundation's 
clout, little is ever said about the insurance operation or the 
foundation. From 1935, Bankers Life specialized in cheap health 
insurance policies, later going into "cheapo" life insurance. 
McArthur called state insurance regulators "petty bureaucrats." 
One author contended McArthur may have bribed state insurance 
inspectors not to look into his books.

Critics called such insurance coverage "steamboat policy." Your 
beneficiaries could collect *only* if you were run over by a 
steamboat on Michigan Boulevard. Others call them "jackass and 
highway insurance." You could collect only if you were kicked in 
the head by a mule on a major expressway -- 10 eyewitnesses had 
to so swear, on oath. Now don't laugh. At one time the *Chicago 
Tribune* sold such ridiculous insurance policies to its 
subscribers.

At one time or another, various "hot shots" have been directors 
of the McArthur Foundation, including Edward Levy, once head of 
the University of Chicago, later U.S. attorney general. Also 
William E. Simon, former Secretary of the Treasury and big dealer 
in buying up washed-out savings and loan associations. (By the 
way, is he involved in the CIA and S&L scandals, huh?)

Another director has been proto-fascist radio commentator, Paul 
Harvey. Of course, few notice that a major sponsor of his 
propaganda blasts has been Bankers Life & Casualty.

John McArthur's son once contended in court that the foundation 
directors were mishandling millions of dollars of charitable 
funds. J. Roderick McArthur's death, however, stopped the lawsuit 
against the directors.

Through huge grants, the foundations manipulate activists all 
over -- including scientists, historians, and writers. Along with 
a Rockefeller front, the foundation bought out *Harpers 
Magazine*, which formerly much criticized, on occasion, major 
corporations.

Some researchers have smiled to themselves: "Hmmm... The McArthur 
Foundation seems to operate very much like those set up by the 
Central Intelligence Agency." For example, the McArthur 
Foundation is a heavy money bags for public television, including 
channel 11 [PBS] in Chicago. (By the way, another manipulator of 
channel 11 is the reputed CIA-linked William Benton Foundation, a 
functionary of which is talk show circus whip-cracker, John 
Calloway.)

The IRS and the Illinois state attorney general are supposed to 
keep a close watch on tax-free operations like the McArthur 
Foundation. *But*, it's easy to look the other way. As Illinois' 
highest legal officer, attorney general Neil Hartigan was charged 
with monitoring such "charitable" trusts. Instead, he helped 
cover up charges of the director's outrageous conduct. Over the 
years, various state and federal officials have suppressed data 
about mysterious operations like the McArthur Foundation.

Tax-free moneyships are a perfect vehicle for covert operations.

Footnote: McArthur's son, Roderick, was involved with George 
DeMohrenschildt and others in the plot to assassinate President 
Kennedy.

In their December 21st, 1985 issue, the *Nation* magazine charged 
that the McArthur Foundation manipulated their tax exemption.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: The Crooked *Chicago Tribune* and Their History. 
(312) 731-1505.

New message Thursday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

