
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 25
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[CN Editor -- I cannot vouch for the accuracy of *all* of the 
following. It may or may not be true, I just don't know.]

[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts [CCCC]." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]

Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 Oglesby.

Crooked federal judges do not die soon enough.

Federal judges are appointed for life. By the Constitution, 
they're supposed to sit during so-called "good behavior." 
Congress only *rarely* has impeached judges, and *that* mostly 
because they antagonized vested interests.

Federal judgeships are bought and sold like a valuable trophy. In 
Chicago, the current corruption price is $1 million for a chair 
in the U.S. District Court. For a chair on the Federal Appeals 
Court here, the sky is the limit!

The Appeals Court, one step below the high court in Washington, 
is the end of the line for most federal cases.

Many federal judges are appointed young enough so that they sit 
for 30 to 40 years, scratching out their decisions like a knot in 
their underwear.

While the FBI and the Justice Department may accuse a small-time 
*state* court judge of corruption, federal judges are granted a 
pass by law enforcement and by the news fakers. Yet as we [CCCC] 
have shown for 30 years in and out of the courthouse, the major 
bribery is in the *federal* court.

For example, in 1969 the chief judge of the U.S. District Court 
here, William J. Campbell, obtained millions of dollars by 
corrupt means, using part of it to build a skyscraper downtown. 
His rotten picture has a place of honor in the federal jail here, 
and the federal court law library is named after him.

Then we come to the example of federal district judge George W. 
Lindbergh. *Previously*, he was an Illinois state appellate 
judge. In a hearing watched by bankers nationwide, judge 
Lindbergh favored Northern Trust Company of Chicago, making it 
virtually impossible to sue banks for lender's liability -- 
wrecking small and medium business borrowers. A few weeks later, 
his backers, with a million dollars and more, bought him a chair 
on the federal district court here.

Judge Lindbergh has sought to "plough under" one of the most 
important, unpublicized cases: The Joseph Androcetti(?) affair.

Lindbergh was corrupted by First National Bank of Cicero, run by 
Paul Marcinkas(?), mafia boss that headed the Vatican bank.

Also corruptly influencing judge Lindbergh has been Household 
International and their units, Household Banks -- successor to 
the Nugan-Hand Bank of Australia, notorious CIA laundry.

*But*, judge Lindbergh has prostate cancer. So, he may not be 
sitting for decades and decades scribbling his poisonous rulings, 
favoring gangster banks and big corporate swindlers and "high- 
class" criminals of all kinds.

Some contend judge Lindbergh is becoming a "canary," singing 
about the bribery and corruption he has been a part of. His 
deathbed confessions how federal cases are "fixed" may shake the 
Dirksen Building, the federal courthouse here. (By the way, since 
the glass is sealed, an exposed, corrupt judge cannot jump out 
the window... hah-hah.)

As judge Lindbergh may well be confessing, judgeships are bought 
and sold, bribes are "washed" through banks here (like the 
Continental Bank, with offshore units), court transcripts are 
"faked up," *and* judges reportedly meet in secret with lawyer 
"fixers," like Meyer, Brown and Platt(?), fronting for the 
bankers. (That law firm, by the way, reportedly bought judge 
Lindbergh his federal judgeship.)

For now, Lindbergh's office has been (312) xxx-xxxx. *But*, 
cynics say we may soon leave a message for judge Lindbergh care 
of a mortuary in Crystal Lake.

But then, crooked federal judges do not die soon enough.

In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.

Play it again: The Death of Reporters. (312) 731-1505.

New message Friday; we change it several times a week.

Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

