

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 36
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with the former marketing director of the 
Arkansas Development and Finance Authority, and former associate 
of Bill Clinton, Larry Nichols. This interview took place on the 
May 5, 1994 "America's Town Forum" radio show, hosted by Tom 
Donahue.  The show is broadcast most weekday evenings at 7 pm 
(cst) on shortwave frequency 5.810 mHz. (Nichols speaks via 
telephone with Donahue.)]


TOM DONAHUE: I want to tell our listeners about a special guest 
we have today; as a matter of fact, *return* guest: Larry 
Nichols. Larry Nichols appears in the video *Clinton's Circle of 
Power*, and a soon-to-be-released video, *The Clinton 
Chronicles*.

Larry, thanks so much for joining us back, on "America's Town 
Forum."

LARRY NICHOLS: Yes, good mornin'. I can barely hear ya.

DONAHUE: O.K. Bob, you're gonna have to give him some more input; 
some more volume.

Larry, can you hear us now?

NICHOLS: Uh... barely.

DONAHUE: O.K. We've made...

NICHOLS: Now! Now.

DONAHUE: Good. Good.

NICHOLS: You're there.

DONAHUE: All right, wonderful.

How are you feeling these days? Rumor had it that you were, uh, 
food poisoned.

NICHOLS: Um... Well, of course, my demise was greatly 
exaggerated.

DONAHUE: All right.

NICHOLS: I had... um, it is an interesting thing that happened. I 
developed a rash, much like you would get from, like, touching 
something you were allergic to. Except it manifested in my lungs. 
And I come to find out it is somethin' from a pesticide. Of 
course, I had nothing to do with pesticides. I don't know where I 
got it, but everybody sort of put 2 and 2 together since Welch, 
the investigator at Mena, was being poisoned and had similar 
symptoms, people started assuming that I had been poisoned. Uh, I 
find that *probably* not to be true. Um, you know, I don't think 
that's true.

DONAHUE: Was this gentleman, Mr. Welch, was *he* poisoned?

NICHOLS: Yessir.

DONAHUE: He was. And for what reason and by whom?

NICHOLS: He was investigating Mena back in the early '80s. And he 
was the main investigator and people in Mena play rough. And they 
did not want him to continue on with his investigation. So, I 
mean, I don't know exactly who poisoned him. I have to be careful 
what I say so that I can justify, legally, everything I say. So, 
I mean, I can only tell you...

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

    [Here's what Welch himself says. The following is an 
    excerpt from a television show called "The Conspiracy 
    Tapes." My thanks to one of the readers of "Conspiracy 
    Nation" for sending me a videotape of this show.]

    NARRATOR: Arkansas state police officer Russell Welch 
    tried to find out who knew what. It nearly got him 
    fatally poisoned.

    WELCH: I was sick. I was originally diagnosed as 
    poisoned.

    NARRATOR: And what was the poison that almost cost him 
    his life?

    WELCH: Military biological agent: anthrax.

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

DONAHUE: Right. How long ago was that? When did that occur?

NICHOLS: Uh that would have been probably, uh, '85.

DONAHUE: O.K. So it did happen back then. So that's not a recent 
occurrence.

O.K. Let me, for our listeners who've never heard you or missed 
the program when you were on with us, um, let's talk about your 
association with Bill Clinton back in the '80s. What is the 
connection. And I understand: the Arkansas Development and 
Finance Authority. But you knew him prior to that as well.

NICHOLS: Yessir. I've known Bill Clinton since probably the mid- 
80s to late-80s. As a matter of fact, I do spot marketing 
projects for he and Hillary during the early '80s. As a matter of 
fact, I helped package their educational standards package. And 
it was only in 1988 that they *created* the job of marketing 
director -- it was not there before me and it's not there now -- 
um, for me to come into that agency. I thought, ostensibly, I was 
coming in to do what a marketing person does, which is market the 
agency. What I found out was I was there simply as "damage 
control" and to "put out fires."

DONAHUE: Hmm... Let's, let's talk...

NICHOLS: ...umm...

DONAHUE: O.K. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

NICHOLS: So anyway, I mean, that's the extent of my involvement 
there.

DONAHUE: O.K.

NICHOLS: I mean, it gets a lot worse. But that's how I ended up 
*at* the agency. And then while I was *at* the agency is when I 
discovered the wrongs that were going on there. And then that 
caused my problem, because I started to blow the whistle.

DONAHUE: How long did it take before you blew the whistle? And 
tell us about the lawsuit.

NICHOLS: Well the whistle was blown... Excuse me one second. Hold 
on. [Leaves the phone]

DONAHUE: O.K. We're talking... Let's do a break now, Bob. Quickly 
go to a break. We'll come back with our guest and we'll take 
calls soon. 1-800-298-8255.

                   (to be continued)

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

