

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 51
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with the former marketing director of the 
Arkansas Development and Finance Authority, and former associate 
of Bill Clinton, Larry Nichols. This interview took place on the 
May 5, 1994 "America's Town Forum" radio show, hosted by Tom 
Donahue.  The show is broadcast most weekday evenings at 7 pm 
(cst) on shortwave frequency 5.810 mHz. (Nichols speaks via 
telephone with Donahue.)]

[...continued...]

TOM DONAHUE: Last time you were on, we had Judge Johnson on as 
well. And give us a little background. Judge Johnson. I think he 
deserves a great deal of respect and I think his credibility is 
impeccable, I think that, uh pristine, if you will. Let's touch 
on that and also I want to go to, and this ties in especially 
with the video [*Clinton's Circle of Power*], Gary Johnson. He 
was the neighbor of Gennifer Flowers. Bill Clinton and Hillary, 
on *60 Minutes*, it was like everything was perfectly fine. If 
there was infidelity, it certainly wasn't occurring now or in the 
future. Pick up from that point on.

LARRY NICHOLS: Well number one, relative to Judge... Justice Jim 
Johnson, he was a former Supreme Court Justice in the state of 
Arkansas. I don't know his age and I don't want to embarrass him, 
but I would surmise he's in his 70s. And it's a 70-year 
distinguished career. And he has put it all on the line, based 
off what he has seen from me. He even says on the tape, when I 
first filed my lawsuit he thought I was nuts. But then he has 
seen everything materialize, everything be documented and proven, 
that was on, in my lawsuit and on that tape.

Gary Johnson. In 1992, I was being bludgeoned by the national 
media. Now let me ask you this, Tom: The day Bill Clinton 
announced for President, in October 3rd, 1991, he gave away 2 
press kits. One was about Bill Clinton. Guess who the other one 
was about? Me.

DONAHUE: It was about you.

NICHOLS: And I mean it was all the articles that I had proven 
were untrue, put in a nice little binder. But they didn't put the 
things in there that are on the back page sayin' it wasn't me and 
I didn't do it.

DONAHUE: Uh. I see.

NICHOLS: Gary Johnson called me and he said, "I know you're 
tellin' the truth. And I know you don't have an attorney. I wanna 
help ya." I met him... He called me on a Monday, I met him on a 
Tuesday. I found out he was not just a normal attorney, he was 
Gennifer Flowers' next-door neighbor.

There was vandalism in the Quawpaw Towers apartment, which I 
verified from the managers. You can too. He put up a camera in 
his peephole to monitor the hallways, to try to catch the 
vandals. Lo and behold, what he caught on his camera was Bill 
Clinton goin' into Gennifer Flowers' apartment, numerous 
occasions, *with a key*. And as you referred to, in *60 Minutes* 
he said he only talked to Gennifer once from the kitchen and from 
his office and he had never been there.

Now. Thursday, of that very same week, we were gonna file a 
subpoena for some records. He [Gary Johnson, Nichols' attorney] 
started gettin' death threats. We filed 'em on Thursday, Saturday 
he was found left for dead. He is on the tape *Circle of Power*. 
Look at the wounds. Look at what it did to him. Three white males 
broke into his apartment, broke both his elbows, then at that 
point he gave them the tape. They wanted it, he gave it to 'em. I 
would of given it to them before they broke my elbows!

DONAHUE: They specifically asked for those surveillance tapes, 
didn't they?

NICHOLS: They certainly did. Then...

DONAHUE: These tapes that had Bill Clinton on there. There's no 
other dignitaries on there. It's Bill Clinton visiting, with a 
key,....

NICHOLS: ....Gennifer Flowers' apartment. *Then*, after he gave 
them the tape, through a series of well-delivered blows they 
ruptured his spleen, ruptured his bladder, I mean, tried to kill 
him. Don't believe me, look at the scars. You've seen 'em, Tom. 
Look at the scars on the tape.

DONAHUE: Yep. Yep.

NICHOLS: Look at the damage to this man mentally. He's scared to 
death.

DONAHUE: Larry, I want you to think, uh during this break, we 
have four-and-a-half minutes when we come back, whatever else you 
want to cover that you want to get out to the American people. 
Reflect on that, meditate on that. We'll come back with your 
final wrap-up, right after these important announcements.

[...commercial break...]

DONAHUE: We are back. Tom Donahue, "America's Town Forum." And I 
wanna thank our stations coast to coast and border to border. 
We've made a transitional, uh we've made a change in studios and 
there's been a few, well, glitches, that we are working through. 
And we *value* your station and your listeners and we thank you 
for uh, putting up with us. We've got almost everything fixed and 
worked out and we, we applaud you for being there through uh, 
tough times.

Let me also thank Swiss America trading [...Donahue thanks Swiss 
America trading for sponsoring his show. Swiss America trading, 
1-800-BUY-COIN...]

*Clinton's Circle of Power*, the video, is available through us 
and Citizens for Honest Government. [...] {1}.

In our closure here, what do you want to tell the American 
people, Larry? We've covered a lot of ground, if you want to do 
some recapping. Talk to us from your heart.

NICHOLS: I guess the thing that I need to tell your audience is, 
they don't need to bet on me. I'm doin' as much as I can possibly 
do. Again, I don't ask anything from anybody, except a 
congressional hearing: which we should all ask. {2}.

The other thing is just don't believe the caller that called in. 
You see, I believe if *I* fail, Tom you'll stand up. Somebody 
else will stand up to replace you. We can *take* our country 
back, now. But ya gotta do your part. And all that is, is call 
your congressman and your senator and demand that they call a 
congressional hearing now and let the truth come out.

I've got "warts," I know they'll come out. Let 'em come out. But 
my "warts" aren't anything like what's goin' on with the nation.

DONAHUE: We have "trooper-gate", we have, you know, "forni-gate", 
you know we have Paula Jones coming forward, that's today, filing 
her suit. We have -- and there's gonna be a lot more women, uh 
many more women coming forward now that they feel that... 
especially if Paula Jones succeeds and if she's given any 
favorable publicity, I think that the other women will come out 
of their "fear zones" and come forward. We have Mena, Arkansas. 
That's gonna be the real blockbuster, as well as the bond scam 
uh, that Dan Lasater has put together.

What other, um criminal deeds, skullduggery, chicanery... uh well 
Vincent Foster, we've touched on that. We know that's still 
boiling. What else?

NICHOLS: I don't know beyond the drugs and all of his ties to 
that. And because he will take, you know, "Presidential 
privilege" and resign, that we will ever get much more serious 
than what's there. But I can tell you this: The most serious 
thing that's gonna happen to Clinton and to all the people that 
support him is people are gonna see for the first time how this 
system's working. You've learned more about the sleazy 
underpinnings and how the government works since Bill Clinton has 
taken office than you would have learned in 20 years.

DONAHUE: We're gonna be talking with Gary Parks, the son of Jerry 
Parks, who, he was assassinated. We know that the Foster murder, 
and I think most people would believe it is a murder by now, 
needs to be looked into. We've got reporters being beaten up, uh 
women that were sexually harassed, money laundered, the drug 
connection here. How much more do we need before the American 
people says that that is enough? Enough is enough. We're drawing 
our line in the sand. This reprobate President must go.

NICHOLS: I only beg and pray that enough *is* enough. And that's 
all we can do.

DONAHUE: And it's not "whitewater rafting". I mean, Whitewater is 
just the tip of the iceberg.

NICHOLS: Yessir.

DONAHUE: And "cattle-gate" as well.

NICHOLS: I mean, what more can go on? I'm with you. When does it, 
when do you say, "Enough."

DONAHUE: God bless you, Larry. We'll have you back. Keep us 
posted. Anytime you're in need, if you need to voice something, 
you let us know and we'll put you right on the air.

Larry Nichols, our very special guest today. Until we meet again, 
Tom Donahue, for "America's Town Forum." Until we meet again, you 
have a great day.

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} *Clinton's Circle of Power* is available from several sources 
that I know of:
-- America First, PO Box 720055, Dallas, Texas, 75372. $20, 
including shipping/handling. Also the Larry Nichols interview, 
May 5, 1994, can also be ordered from America First for $7 total 
cost for audio cassette. One thing: Donahue is preoccupied with 
his legal battle at the moment. I have found his response is slow.
-- *For The People* Bookstore. Call 1-800-888-9999, 24 hours a 
day, 7 days a week. $19.95 plus $4.00 shipping/handling.
-- Liberty Library *may* still have it. Their phone is 1-800-522- 
6292.

{2} Hearings are scheduled for late July, 1994. Yet I am 
apprehensive that, even now, Clinton Inc. may be setting things 
up behind the scenes so that, again, Mr. Bill can slime his way 
out of things. Let's hope the "fiske (excuse me, fix) is *not* 
in" on them too.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

