

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 87
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

First a note from the Editor-in-chief of Conspiracy Nation:
This nation is sure full of conspiracies! You can see why it is 
nicknamed, "Conspiracy Nation". Here we go with *yet another* 
example of the LIES we are surrounded with. It is as if I have 
lived, looking at the moon all these years, and then one day 
someone says, "Yes. But did you know there is a whole other side 
to the moon; a side you have never seen?" Delving into conspiracy 
theories is like that.

At one time, I asked one of my professors, "What do you think of 
these 'conspiracy theories'?" He looked at me, then said, "You 
mean like the JFK assassination?" He then looked around, lowered 
his voice, and added, "You know. I have a friend who insists that 
Oswald didn't shoot Kennedy!"

Here's me, mock startled, responding to this "revelation" of the 
professor: "No! You don't mean it!"

Delving into conspiracy theories is like finding out there is 
(allegedly) another side of the moon that you've never seen. So 
you get on a rocket ship, fly to the other side, and it begins to 
dawn on you: "My God. There is so much!"

As Peter Dale Scott noted during a debate with Gerald Posner, "It 
is so vast."

It is so vast. And here is some more to add:

 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +

AIDS: What the Government Isn't Telling You
by Lorraine Day, M.D.
(Part 1)

In the preface, Dr. Day, who has worked as an orthopedic surgeon 
and assistant professor at the University of California, 
describes how she began to have the disheartening realization 
that those above her in the chain of command had compromised 
their principles. At one point she asked one of her superiors, 
"But what do you want me to do? Sell my soul?" The response? 
"Sooner or later everyone sells his soul." So much for so-called 
"superiors".

Dr. Day charges that many of those in charge of combatting AIDS 
have their own hidden agendas which keep them from dealing 
effectively with the epidemic. Professionals routinely behave in 
a "politically correct" way or else risk losing their jobs.

Dr. Day tried to work within the medical establishment. But when 
she saw to what extent many "experts" were privately saying one 
thing, then publicly saying another, she decided that the public 
had a right to know the truth. So, she began to speak out. "I 
made the decision to tell what I know for the safety of the 
unsuspecting public; for the safety of my fellow health care 
workers who are taking far greater risks than the government is 
admitting, and for my children and the children of other 
concerned parents."

Our leaders "are playing a deadly game with our lives and the 
lives of our children."

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

