

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 59
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

BILL CLINTON: PARTY ANIMAL
by Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-chief, Conspiracy Nation
Copyright (c) 1994 -- All rights reserved


*The Sunday Telegraph*, a London-based newspaper, carries the 
following headline on page one of their July 17, 1994 edition: 
"Clinton 'took cocaine while in office'".

The allegations were made to Ambrose Evans-Pritchard by several 
witnesses in a series of interviews conducted by him.

Mention is made of "wild behaviour at nightclubs and private 
parties," of drug use and abuse that occurred for more than a 
decade, from 1972 to 1986.

The article questions how Clinton could have afforded an 
apparently massive drug habit considering he was then earning a 
somewhat modest $35,000 per year as Governor of Arkansas.

Remember how Clinton told us that he had puffed but never inhaled 
marijuana? Well, as Gomer Pyle used to say, "Surprise, surprise, 
surprise," Billie Jeff seems to have been, in fact, a real "party 
animal."

Jane Parks, wife of the slain Jerry Parks, a former police 
officer who was in charge of security for the Clinton-Gore 
Presidential campaign, has recently decided to come forward and 
tell what she knows. "She is in the advanced stages of multiple 
sclerosis and she feels she no longer has anything to lose."

In 1984, Jane Parks managed an apartment complex in Little Rock. 
During that summer, Roger Clinton, brother of Bill, resided 
there. Because Roger Clinton's apartment was adjacent to Mrs. 
Parks' office, and because there was only a "thin partition" 
between her and that jolly buccaneer, Roger Clinton, she "got an 
earful."

Jane Parks avers that Billie Jeff Clinton was a frequent visitor 
at parties there, at Roger Clinton's apartment, during the summer 
of 1984. She claims there was drug use at these get-togethers and 
that she could hear our own Mr. President commenting on the 
quality of the marijuana they were smoking and discussing the 
relative strength of the cocaine they were snorting.

Mrs. Parks also expressed concern about the quite young girls 
lured into Roger's swinging "pad." Was the man who now holds the 
office once held by such great Americans as Jefferson and Lincoln 
licking his chops in anticipation of nubile delights as he 
snorted "lines" of cocaine off the coffee table there? Well, Mrs. 
Parks testimony *is* backed up by other witnesses. As one witness 
confirmed things: "Bill had his girlfriends in there. You could 
hear them through the walls. Some of them looked like very young 
girls to me."

Another witness told the *Sunday Telegraph* that on one occasion 
Clinton hauled out a bag of cocaine and did up a "line" on her 
living room table. Says Sally Perdue, "He had all the equipment 
laid out, like a real pro."

If you are saying, "Well, so what," bear in mind that there are 
thousands of persons doing very hard time at the moment for the 
same sort of thing. Bear in mind that the government has been 
spending a lot of your money fighting a so-called "War on Drugs" 
that seems to be, in reality, more of a "War on the Bill of 
Rights."

I am not going to go into the testimony of numerous witnesses 
presented in the rather lengthy article. I wish I could just tell 
you to read about it in your regular newspaper, but funny thing: 
the American press is not covering these stories very well.

What I can tell you is that the article further states that the 
mysteriously murdered Jerry Parks had the smarts to make extra 
copies of the file that was stolen from his home. One set has 
reportedly been passed on to a federal law enforcement agency. 
Can we look forward to finally learning the contents of this file 
during the upcoming congressional investigations into Whitewater? 
Or is Billy Boy even now sliming the way so that would-be truth- 
seekers will be thwarted? Will the fiske, excuse me, the fix, be 
in on these upcoming hearings as well?

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

