

              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 1  Num. 24
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

[From an interview with Linda Thompson on the *For the People* 
radio show, Feb. 11, 1994. Host is Chuck Harder.]

[Continued...]

CHUCK HARDER: Linda Thompson is our guest. And Linda, you were 
talking about FINCEN and O-S... OSEDEF?

LINDA THOMPSON: OCDETF. Yeah.

HARDER: OCDETF [Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force], and 
the Treasury, and how it ties to who?

THOMPSON: Scott. And some of these other cases.

HARDER: Well, let's hear it.

THOMPSON: All right. FINCEN is the 92 computer data bank center 
that has all this information about all of us. They're using... 
Government agencies are supposed to all hook into it. Every 
single state has a liaison officer for FINCEN who works for the 
state patrol. So the first thing anybody investigating this 
should do...

HARDER: Um-hmm. [Understands]

THOMPSON: ...is find out who *their* liaison officer is with the 
state patrol in their state. Um... But... What I found most 
interesting was that both of these organizations operate under 
Treasury, not under the Department of Justice. Treasury is not a 
law enforcement body. It never was intended to be. It got that 
way only through the corruption that has occurred with the ATF. 
Originally the ATF was formed as a tax enforcement agency for 
bootleggers. They were supposed to enforce payment of liquor 
taxes,...

HARDER: Um-hmm. [Understands]

THOMPSON: ...that's all. They're a tax collection agency. Same 
thing for the IRS.

Well we all know how now the IRS and ATF, both, have goon and 
thug squads that go out, break in people's doors, and essentially 
commit mayhem across the country as if they are some sort of law 
enforcement agency -- *which they are not!*

Um, but in any event, this OCDETF interested me quite a bit and I 
found out that they have agents of the IRS that fly with OCDETF 
that first identify assets of people -- for instance, drug 
dealers. They use the FINCEN computers to identify assets; they 
have IRS go with them, to point them out when they make the raid.

The first time FINCEN was used was to identify all the assets of 
Iraq in this country. And then those assets were seized. You 
might remember that from a few years ago.

HARDER: Um-hmm. [Affirmative]

THOMPSON: So I would think it's very important to the 
understanding of the Scott case to realize that we have a 
government that is targeting assets that they want, *first*, 
before they do raids on people!

HARDER: Well now we know also, there's been some investigation in 
the Scott case, and I believe it was a newspaper out there was 
amazed that they found out that the multi-jurisdictional forces 
even had gotten a property appraiser to tell 'em what Scott's 
property was worth before they went in and raided him!

THOMPSON: Well OCDETF *is* the multi-jurisdictional task force.

HARDER: O.K.

THOMPSON: Because they are the primary agency of that. Because 
they're under Treasury department. They *do* fly the black 
helicopters. They have IRS agents on the helicopters with them 
and, apparently, Drug Enforcement Agency agents.

HARDER: All right, all right. So they killed Scott.

THOMPSON: Um-hmm. [Affirmative]

HARDER: And what's the bottom line with that case now?

THOMPSON: No apologies. They killed him.

HARDER: That's it.

THOMPSON: That, and the property is in limbo. His wife has had a 
lot of problems trying to fight what has gone on around it in 
terms of seizure. They originally seized the property as if it 
was a drug asset.

HARDER: Um-hmm. [Understands]

THOMPSON: Um, and so far as I know, they haven't been successful 
in keeping it. Because they didn't... *Now* we have a Supreme 
Court ruling that says you must *first* convict the person of a 
crime before you can seize their property as a drug asset.

HARDER: Right. Right.

THOMPSON: You also have the "innocent purchaser" protection, 
which I think his wife would fall under. Because that property 
was in her name as well.

So. But what you're seeing is a government agency that's *using* 
this FINCEN to *target* properties that they want to steal, 
essentially. And then coming up with some sort of bogus way to 
raid the property.

This is applicable to the Branch Davidians as well. *Their* 
property is in the middle of property owned by a guy named 
Perry(?). Perry has wanted their property for years, and in fact 
was able to get -- before Koresh came there -- he was able to get 
about 900 acres of it. There is supposed to be a "bullet train" 
that runs through that part of Texas, through Waco, directly 
through the Branch Davidian's property, that would essentially 
make it worth millions of dollars when that goes through.

So there were a lot of potential profit motives involved as well 
in targeting the Branch Davidians.

HARDER: In other words: These people are in the way; let's get 
rid of them.

THOMPSON: Uh-huh. [Affirmative]

There were a lot of people after David Koresh for different 
reasons. He had disgruntled former members that were trying to 
oust him. He had government people that wanted his property. He 
had a neighbor that wanted his property...

HARDER: In other words, this is kind of a new method of "eminent 
domain."

THOMPSON: Um-hmm. [Affirmative] Absolutely.

HARDER: [Bursts out laughing]

THOMPSON: And you know, the king is sovereign. It's not really 
new. They used to do this in feudal times. If the king wanted 
property, he'd send his henchmen in to, you know, cut your head 
off and take your property.

HARDER: So that's what we're doing now, only we're calling it 
"justice."

We'll be right back with Linda Thompson and more on Waco. Don't 
go away.

                        (to be continued)

-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe my-email@address" 
to bigxc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the form 
"cancel my-email@address." && Articles sent in are considered.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

