
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 3  Num. 69
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
FEMINISM: MASK FOR MARXISM?
 
Tom Valentine's guest on *Radio Free America* (Shortwave, 5.065 
MHz, mon-fri, 9 pm cst) on December 28, 1994 was Andrea Pearson, 
editor-in-chief of a newsletter called "Americans In Exile" 
[contact info to be included below]. Ms. Pearson has some non- 
politically correct views on feminism, etc. Note that views 
expressed in the following do not necessarily reflect my own 
views or those of Conspiracy Nation.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
[...continued...]
 
TOM VALENTINE:
I can tell ya, being a student in high school in '49, '50, '51, 
'52, that that wasn't true.
 
 
ANDREA PEARSON:
Oh it certainly isn't true...
 
 
VALENTINE:
Our class valedictorian was a girl! [i.e., young wommon; cf. 
*Politically Correct Bedtime Stories* by James Finn Garner.]
 
 
PEARSON:
Oh yes, absolutely. There *is* no gender inequity in education. 
And yet, in the Gender Equity in Education Act what we end up 
with is a massive system -- not only re-writing of history, 
textbooks intended to create certain opinions in children 
regarding gender roles, but really disgusting things like parent 
education about gender roles and their influence on learning.
 
 
VALENTINE:
All right. I want to take this up in more detail when we come 
back.
 
My guest is Andrea Pearson. And we're talking about the gender 
war, and Marxism. I'm Tom Valentine. This is *Radio Free 
America*.
 
[...break...]
 
We are *live*, again. And on the other end of the telephone is 
Andrea Pearson. And we're gonna be continuing to talk about the 
Gender Equity in Education Act. I profess a great deal of 
ignorance here on this subject.
 
Andrea, I believe you put out a little newsletter or something on 
this, don't you?
 
 
PEARSON:
Yeah, I sure do.
 
 
VALENTINE:
Tell me about that, too.
 
 
PEARSON:
Well, anyone who's interested in obtaining the newsletter can 
either write to me or call me. The address is: Americans in 
Exile, P.O. Box 2636, Pittsfield, Massachusetts, 01202. And my 
phone number is (413) 499-3593.
 
 
VALENTINE:
Oh, I have that number! I thought maybe you had a different 
number for that. O.K. It's "Americans in Exile". Ah-hah! Are 
*you* an "American in exile"?
 
 
PEARSON:
I think that most people who have the traditional belief systems 
about what marriage is, what the parents' role is towards their 
children, and so forth and so on, *are* "exiled" in America 
today.
 
 
VALENTINE:
O.K. Andrea, will you send out a sample if people write to you 
and say that they'd like to see it?
 
 
PEARSON:
Yeah, I sure will!
 
 
VALENTINE:
O.K. Good. We got that done.
 
Now, this Gender Equity in Education Act. (I *should* know all 
about it.) I don't know a thing about it. When'd they pass this?
 
 
PEARSON:
It was passed in 1993.
 
 
VALENTINE:
Oh, last year!
 
 
PEARSON:
Yeah. And what it does is, it allows, first of all, for the 
connection of major government systems: Health and Human 
Services, uh there's... They call it "The Link-up for Learning". 
And what it does is, it puts together a *huge* federal-level 
method for tabulating where students are: their socio-economic 
status, their race, their sex, and so forth...
 
 
VALENTINE:
Oh, is this the thing that Beverly Eckman has helped uncover in 
her book about education?
 
 
PEARSON:
It's very likely that it may be related to that. I don't know if 
she's aware of this or not. But one thing that it says here (I'm 
reading), it says, "improve inter-agency communications and 
information sharing, including developing local-area 
telecommunication networks, software development, database 
integration and management." And this is with major areas of the 
federal government. There's a federal inter-agency task force 
that's been set up "consisting of the Secretary of Education, 
Housing and Urban Development, Health and Human Services, and 
heads of other federal agencies, as appropriate." This is a huge 
bill. It's $360 million in the first year.
 
 
VALENTINE:
All right, now, this is strange. Most Americans, including 
myself, would think that's awfully innocuous -- telling the 
bureaucrats of our government to get together and computerize. 
But what you're saying is, by having government bureaucrats get 
together and computerize, they are micro-managing lives in a way 
that is detrimental to our traditional society.
 
 
PEARSON:
Well it *is* invasive to the family. But it's also particularly 
disturbing that the kind of things that they're paying attention 
to are the gender role socialization within a particular 
student's family. And also, you know this bill provides for so 
much, it's difficult to talk about *all* of it. But...
 
 
VALENTINE:
Well, wait a minute: gender role socialization inside a 
particular family??
 
 
PEARSON:
That's right.
 
 
VALENTINE:
How do they go about doing this? What do they do?
 
 
PEARSON:
Well, one thing is to change the textbooks so they're considered 
to be "gender equitable". Another thing that they do is, they put 
monies into different parts of the country: "At least one grant," 
(and I'm quoting here), "in each of the ten federal regions." 
That's *their* words.
 
Also, in the U.N. [United Nations] treaty, they talk about this 
same sort of thing being put into the education system. We're 
getting into conformity with U.N. law here.
 
 
VALENTINE:
All right, does that mean... I'm trying to get this in a 
practical, down-to-earth, 1950s mentality -- which I'm stuck with 
when it comes to education and school. That means that boys don't 
go to wood shop anymore, and girls don't go to "home ec." [i.e., 
home economics]
 
 
PEARSON:
Uh...
 
 
VALENTINE:
They all go to sex education.
 
 
PEARSON:
Well... It's not that simple. There's "set-asides" for pregnant 
teenagers. It allows for the erection of day-care centers -- 
either next to the school or nearby the school, with 
transportation provided. It provides for all kinds of special 
privileges for girls...
 
 
VALENTINE:
I got ya. All right.
 
Andrea is my guest, Andrea Pearson and the American in Exile. And 
we're gonna open up the phone lines to you.
 
I'm Tom Valentine. This is *Radio Free America*.
 
[...break...]
 
All right. We are back, live. My guest is Andrea. Andrea Pearson, 
the producer of "Americans in Exile" newsletter, out of Post 
Office Box 2636, in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, 01202.
 
And Andrea, this Gender Equity in Education Act sounds like a 
massive thing, sort of like the crime bill. And it slipped 
through in 1993. There wasn't a lot of fanfare, was there?
 
 
PEARSON:
There wasn't a lot of fanfare. I'd be surprised if most Americans 
knew about it. I think that they'd be *horrified* if they knew 
what was in it.
 
 
VALENTINE:
Well I'm... I don't even fully understand yet. We've been talking 
about it, but um... It's a big bill, and you say it's horrifying. 
Yet I don't sense the urgency. Somehow, we're not getting it 
across, of how bad it is.
 
 
PEARSON:
Well, one thing that seems to me like a real whopper is, that an 
"at risk" student is defined here. And this is the definition. 
(I'd like to read it, 'cause I think it's so serious): "Many 'at 
risk' students suffer the effects of inadequate nutrition and 
health care, overcrowded and unsafe living conditions and 
homelessness, family and gang violence, substance abuse, sexual 
abuse and child abuse, involuntary migration, and limited English 
proficiency, that often creates severe barriers to learning" the 
knowledge and skills, and so forth.
 
Then it later... This is one thing that they're going to give 
grants to support, is grants to local education agencies to 
improve educational performances of "at risk" students by 
removing barriers to their learning.
 
The trouble is, is with Bill of Rights, is that what *happens* 
is, the government starts stepping in and saying that poverty, 
and someone who's unemployed, may in fact be... uh, that 
constitutes "dysfunction" within a family. And you know as well 
as I do that this monstrous "child protective services" industry 
that's been set up, [it] gobbles up people.
 
 
VALENTINE:
They abuse it. I mean, we have had... We've had people (and 
you've probably heard 'em on this show) that are *very* concerned 
about the social welfare abuse system, where a child can actually 
point a finger at the parents and yell, "Mommy and daddy are 
treating me bad!" -- and the State's gonna come in and throw 
mommy and daddy in the slammer and put the kid in a foster home!
 
 
PEARSON:
Oh sure. And what it does is, it integrates services, 
regulations, databases, eligibility procedures, and funding 
sources, "focusing school and community resources on prevention 
and early intervention strategies, to address student needs 
holistically."
 
Now the trouble is, is that what's happening in this country is 
we are having Marxism imposed with the force of law on the 
people. And Marxists believe that children should be in the care 
of the State. Now the forceable removal of children is one thing. 
But the coercion of the child away from the American culture and 
values, their Christian, or Judeo-Christian values, is something 
that I think would disturb a lot of people. And the roles of 
husband and wife are something that our government has an 
unhealthy interest in.
 
 
VALENTINE:
Well frankly, the federal government especially has *no* business 
in *any* of these things, that you're talkin' about. The schools 
should be run by the local school districts, or the people who 
are sending their kids to that school oughtta run that district.
 
If you'd like to join us (my guest is Andrea Pearson), and if 
you'd like to join us, it's 1-800-878-8255.
 
Did you know that this Feminism, that she's talking about, had 
this Marxist agenda? And it's been insidious! You know, they... 
What was it that somebody said? "You don't lose your freedom in 
one big fell swoop. You lose it little by little." I think that's 
what's happening here, Andrea.
 
                   [...to be continued...]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you would like "Conspiracy Nation" sent to your e-mail 
address, send a message in the form "subscribe conspire My Name" 
to listproc@prairienet.org -- To cancel, send a message in the 
form "unsubscribe conspire" to listproc@prairienet.org
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Aperi os tuum muto, et causis omnium filiorum qui pertranseunt.
Aperi os tuum, decerne quod justum est, et judica inopem et 
  pauperem.                    -- Liber Proverbiorum  XXXI: 8-9 

