
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 4  Num. 26
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
U.S. AIDED RESCUE OF CZAR NICHOLAS, BRITISH HINT
[*Chicago Tribune*, Dec. 14, 1970. Note that this article only 
ran in one/some editions -- it was pulled from subsequent 
editions.]
 
NEW YORK, Dec. 13 (UPI) -- British government documents which 
recently were placed in the public record office in London 
indicate that President Woodrow Wilson backed a secret mission to 
Russia which may have resulted in the rescue of Czar Nicholas and 
his family in 1918.
 
The documents, copies of which have been received by researchers 
in New York, state that the U.S. government placed $75,000 at the 
disposal of Sir William Wiseman, a partner in the New York 
banking house of Kuhn, Loeb & Co. It asked the British government 
to make a like contribution to the "scheme" which is linked to 
other documents still in secret British files.
 
              -+- 3 Months After Abdication -+-
 
A document carrying notations indicating British cooperation had 
the approval of Lord Hardinge of Penshurst, then permanent under- 
secretary of state for foreign affairs, is dated June 20, 1917, 
three months after Nicholas' abdication.
 
It was addressed to Sir Eric Drummond, then secretary to Lord 
Balfour, secretary of state for foreign affairs. A June 25 
document signed by Drummond says $75,000 was placed to Wiseman's 
credit at the Morgan bank by the British government.
 
Recent research indicates that the Bolsheviks "faked" the 
execution of the Romanov family in Ekaterinburg on July 29, 1918. 
They allowed the Romanovs to go to a Russian port where they were 
to be picked up by an allied ship. At least one, and perhaps 
several American agents have been placed in the area of these 
purported operations at the right time.
 
                 -+- Evidence in Treaty -+-
 
There is also mounting evidence that the unpublished complete 
text of the treaty of Brest-Litovsk signed March 3, 1918, 
contained a guarantee from the Lenin government that no harm 
would come to the Romanovs, according to researchers. The short- 
lived treaty was pressed on the Bolshevik government by the 
Germans whose emperor, William II, was a cousin of Czar Nicholas.
 
A retired U.S. official, who has aided the investigations and 
asked to remain anonymous, said continued secrecy on the part of 
the British and American governments "frustrates or makes liars 
out of all those who are ridiculed for stating the assassination 
never took place." He said some who participated in the rescue 
are still alive and "should be interviewed."
 
"It is a preposterous claim that full disclosure would strain the 
relations among any of the involved governments," he said. "A 
whole new breed has taken over in all the chancelleries. 
Certainly there can be little fear anywhere of a Czarist 
revival."
 
                   -+- Reconstruct Events -+-
 
According to a reconstruction of events based on new evidence, 
the czar, czarina and their five children were spirited from 
Ekaterinburg by a team of international agents in July, 1918. The 
couple and two of their children were evacuated from Odessa on 
the Black Sea under cover of an allied landing in December, 1919, 
and taken to Malta on a U.S. naval vessel which had the British 
cover name of H.M.S. Howan. The actual name is not yet known.
 
At Malta, where the Americans had a base under the command of 
Rear Adm. William H. Bullard, the Romanovs waited while the 
British government hesitated about giving them asylum and finally 
decided against it. At least three Romanovs were taken to Trieste 
on a British battleship, the H.M.S. Lord Nelson, and travelled to 
Vienna and finally to Warsaw where they went underground.
 
At least one of the Romanovs, who had split up after 
Ekaterinburg, made it to Poland by Dec. 1918, according to the 
sources.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------

