
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 4  Num. 25
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
INTERVIEW WITH SHERMAN SKOLNICK -- MARCH 6, 1995
 
On March 6, 1995, I interviewed Mr. Sherman Skolnick of the 
Citizens' Committee to Clean-up the Courts [CCCC] by telephone. 
The following is my transcription of that interview. Note that in 
this interview I neither necessarily agree nor disagree with 
either all or some of the statements of Mr. Skolnick.
   -- Brian Francis Redman, Editor-in-chief, Conspiracy Nation
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I looked in the Tsar file...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...and I sent you a copy of a very rare article from the Chicago 
Tribune that ran in *one* edition, in '70.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I put it in the mail Saturday; you should get it.
 
It says that documents were released, apparently after 50 years 
(this is 1970, in the article)...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Um-hmm [understands].
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...that the Tsar and the Tsarina, and their family, actually were 
not murdered but were rescued by the British royalty, their 
cousins.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. And my guess is that the copyright would've expired on that, 
so I could just, say, type it out and probably put it on the 
Internet.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I wouldn't worry about the copyright. I wrote a letter to the 
editors a year ago about that article, and they've never 
acknowledged at the *[Chicago] Tribune*, or responded, or ran it, 
or anything.
 
They....... Two things: they released fraudulent details, I 
believe them to be fraudulent, that some bones, otherwise not 
identifiable, in the bottom of a mine shaft in Siberia...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Um-hmm [understands].
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...that they did DNA tests on it and they said that those were 
the Tsar, the Tsarina, and the children.
 
False. It's false.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Secondly, the guy, Richards -- some guy gave you an e-mail back 
that there was a book showing that Alexei Romanov [gives 
spelling]... But the book by a guy named Richards, O.K.? Alexei 
told me about this *21* *years* *ago*! Richards is the pen name 
of a former gestapo official.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Would you expect a former gestapo official to tell you the 
truth!?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
No.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
What has been published, over the last 30 years and so on, in 
various books...
 
Alexei used a Polish name: Michael Golenieski. Michael Golenieski 
was a top official of the Polish counter-intelligence. O.K.? And, 
according to published accounts, when he defected -- during the 
time that he arrived in this country in January of '61, a few 
days before JFK was inaugurated as the President. He was 
inaugurated January 20th, '61. O.K.?
 
He -- Golenieski -- arrived between the November '60 election, 
and the January '61 inauguration. By special act of Congress he 
was made a U.S. citizen and promised $100,000 per year. He has 
been only getting $5,000 per year. *But*, the reason he was very 
useful to American Intelligence: his information was so accurate 
that over 400 Soviet spies were identified in the West and 
arrested. So how much of a charlatan and a liar could he be!?
 
O.K. This guy Richards, which is a pen name for an apparent 
gestapo official, left over from the Second War, is not to be 
trusted! The books that *are* to be trusted are Antony Summers', 
the -- I believe the name of his book is *The Rescue of the 
Tsar*...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...and another book -- I don't know the author -- but it's called 
*Imperial Agent*. And it tells how the Tsar, the Tsarina, and the 
children were rescued through Vladivostok. And they went all the 
way around, with a British cruiser, ended at Malta. And the Tsar 
and his wife and the children took up residence in Poland. And 
Alexei was given a false name -- Michael Golenieski. He was 
trained in Marxism, and became a top Polish Intelligence official 
at the time, right after the Second War, when Russia took over 
the Warsaw government.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And so he knew all the Soviet spies, which he successfully 
identified -- including, I think there was a spy who purportedly 
was a Swede, name (if my memory serves) Winterstrom(sp?).
 
But there's things published. So anybody named Richards that says 
that he's a charlatan, doesn't know.
 
Besides which, in '70, there was a raft of British documents 
released which the *Tribune*, in a wire service story, referred 
to -- that I sent you a copy of, O.K.?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
All right.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And these documents show it is most likely that the Tsar and the 
family were rescued.
 
And the name of William Wiseman, a U.S. diplomat (I don't have 
the article in front of me; I sent it to you)... But William 
Wiseman, he was given money to facilitate this by President 
Woodrow Wilson. That's referred to in the article.
 
So anybody that says that Alexei is a charlatan and a fraud does 
not know the pertinent details.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Well...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I spent two entire days questioning him. The man has got a 
*profound* understanding of American history. For example, he 
knows about the Alaska purchase in 1867, how it was done at 
midnight. And it was called, "Seward's Folly".
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah. Yeah, O.K. It's fairly well-known it's called "Seward's 
Folly", but as far as it bein' done at midnight, I had never 
heard that.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Oh yeah. It was done through a strange bank in D.C. at midnight.
 
Alexei has got a profound understanding of history.
 
And the reason, the reason... And when you read this article, 
that the *Tribune* has never recanted or renounced, you'll see 
why. Because *if*, if the major media were to reveal this major 
fraud of the 20th century, they'd have to re-do a lot of history 
books. Why? The Romanov family -- not as the Tsar, but the 
private gold fortune...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah, it went to Rockefeller.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Yeah. To the Chase Bank, which later became the Chase Manhattan 
Bank.
 
If you know anything about numbers and compound interest, that 
$400 million, at $20 an ounce [in 1918]...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...and now it's $376 an ounce, for gold. And *compounded* 
interest -- that money there is more than the whole bank! You see 
what I mean? And the Rockefellers, right after these documents 
came out, in '70 -- released after 50 years, by the British 
government -- is when they made the fraudulent movie, "Nicholas 
and Alexandra". And at the close of it they show the Tsar and his 
family getting shot against a wall in a basement in 
Ekatereinberg, Siberia.
 
Across the road from where the Tsar and his family were kept was 
a house, occupied by British Intelligence. You understand? The 
British royal family and the Tsar are cousins. They saved 'em!
 
Read this article when you get it in the mail. You'll see the 
point.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah, all right. You know, this is somethin' that I really 
hadn't...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
[*Sotto voce*] If you put this on Internet, you may cause... 
*This*... You can quote me: My opinion is that this is one of the 
great historical frauds of the 20th century.
 
And when you read the article... Whoever did the article from UPI 
even *quotes* an American retired diplomat, who says... He gives 
some reasons, there, *why* the British and American government 
want this hushed up. *And*, if you're a scholar of history, you 
know that when the Russians made a peace treaty with the Germans, 
early in 1917, called the Brest-Litovsk agreement?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Um-hmm [understands].
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
*Part* of it has been secret ever since! This article refers to 
it. There is a section of that secret understanding, which... 
It's an agreement between the oncoming Bolshevik government, and 
the Germans and others, that forevermore it will be kept secret 
that the Tsar and his family were, in fact, rescued. They were 
not killed. But that, they will release details as if they were 
murdered.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
All right. Along those lines, I've heard it said by some people 
that this whole Bolshevik Revolution was really part of Wall 
Street's plan or something.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
All right. Wall Street and the... I think the name of the book is 
*Wall Street and the Rise of the Bolsheviks* by Anthony Sutton.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
*There*, he goes into the documented study how those at the tip 
of Manhattan, on Wall Street, *financed* Lenin. And in fact, he 
refers to old issues of the *New York Times* of 1918 where it was 
*admitted* that millions and millions of dollars in gold went 
from Wall Street to finance the Bolshevik government as... Well, 
the British financed the Kerensky government, which forced out 
the, forced the Tsar to abdicate. And until he died in 1959... 
Kerensky came to the United States. And he was a British agent. 
But he didn't pull the government together. And then he was 
replaced by the Bolsheviks, who were financed by American big 
business!
 
                   [...to be continued...]
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------

