
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 4  Num. 17
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
[CN Editor -- I cannot vouch for the accuracy of *all* of the 
following. It may or may not be true, I just don't know. However 
I consider Skolnick to be an honest and careful investigator.]
 
[The following is a transcript of a recorded phone message put 
out by a group in Chicago called "Citizens' Committee to Clean Up 
the Courts [CCCC]." (312) 731-1100 and (312) 731-1505.]
 
Hi! Sherman Skolnick, Citizens' Committee to Clean Up the Courts, 
9800 South Oglesby.
 
Well, the Queen of England's bank has gone under. What does it 
mean, huh?
 
Operating for over 230 years, Barings Brothers Securities 
survived wars and depressions, and was supposedly "done in" by a 
28-year-old derivatives trader in the yen market who has 
conveniently disappeared. So was the royal British merchant bank 
killed by the misguided "lone assassin" of world finance? *Oh* 
*yeah*?!
 
Some write it off as merely another shot in the battle between 
securities traders and merchant bankers on one side, and the 
"banker bankers" on the other side. Under attack are laws in the 
united States prohibiting bankers from being in the stock and 
bond business. Others know it to be more profound.
 
In 1943, the Pope had an understanding with the western powers 
during World War II. The Vatican agreed *not* to interfere with 
financial matters of the West for 50 years. *They* agreed to 
protect the Vatican during and after the war. The American CIA 
later helped arrange and finance the mighty Vatican Bank, which 
became interwoven with the traditional Sicilian and Italian Mafia 
as well as the spook agencies worldwide.
 
Well, just before the 50 years expired, the western bankers 
started their attack on Italy's largest, the Banca Nazionale de 
Lavoro [BNL], owned in part by the Pope. They claimed that BNL 
secretly handles some $5 billion through their U.S. branch in 
Atlanta. Destination? Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi strongman, 
enabling him to buy exotic weapons disguised as "U.S. agriculture 
loans".
 
In 1990, BNL's Chicago branch became involved in a semi-secret, 
super-duper federal court case in Chicago involving joint, 
private business ventures of Saddam Hussein and his secret 
partner, George Herbert Walker Bush, at the time, U.S. President. 
The case revolved around billions and billions of dollars of oil 
kickbacks from other Persian Gulf countries. We [CCCC] were the 
*only* journalists at the federal appeals court hearing in 1991. 
The three-judge panel was blackmailed into quietly putting the 
case out of court. The Bush Justice Department knew about their 
bribery in 8 other cases. Writing the corrupt decision was 
Rockefeller agent Judge Richard A. Posner, later becoming chief 
judge.
 
The Pope and the British monarchy have been fighting around for 
over 500 years. So, two years ago, after the 50-year peace pact 
had expired, the Pope arranged to zap the Queen's bank. Barings 
managed the portfolio and reportedly controlled the assets of the 
public pension funds in Vermont, New York, Florida, Minnesota, 
and California. Billions of U.S. pension funds are frozen, or 
endangered, with the collapse of Barings. The huge London City 
bank, Abbey National, may also go down.
 
Barings' American conduit is Northern Trust Company of Chicago. 
Barings owned 40 percent of Dillon Read, a primary dealer in U.S. 
Treasury notes. More sinister: the British royal family, through 
Barings Bank, has been involved in the Far East dope trade for 
over 150 years! With the coming of "China White" [heroin], 
however, the Queen and her dope-laundry bank have been somehow 
"X'd out".
 
The Barings Bank crowd know the secret that Tsar Nicholas II of 
Russia and his family actually were *not* murdered in 1918 at the 
time of the Russian Revolution. In 1974, our chairman [CCCC] and 
others with us interviewed, for two whole days, Alexei Romanov, 
who has substantial proof that he, his sisters, and parents, the 
Tsar and Tsarina of Russia, were not murdered as falsely stated 
by history books. Involved is $400 million in Romanov family gold 
in the Rockefeller banks -- when gold was $20 per ounce. If the 
secret comes out, the Rockefellers would have to disgorge 
billions of dollars.
 
In Chicago, see us on cable tv, channel 21, 9 pm [cst] most 
Monday evenings.
 
Play it again: "The History of Bombings". (312) 731-1505.
 
New message Friday; we change it several times a week.
 
Donations appreciated. Citizen's Committee to Clean Up the 
Courts, 9800 South Oglesby, Chicago, [Illinois] 60617. For the 
latest on courts, banks, espionage agencies, political 
assassinations, and the news media. On 24 hours a day.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------

