
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 4  Num. 21
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")
 
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
 
INTERVIEW WITH SHERMAN SKOLNICK -- MARCH 2, 1995
 
I spoke by phone with Sherman Skolnick of the Citizens' Committee 
to Clean-up the Courts [CCCC]. Here is my transcription of that 
interview.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
[...continued...]
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
All right, what subjects do you particularly want to get into?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
There's just a few questions that people had, O.K.? And you've 
answered, so far, fine; I'm happy with the answers you've given 
me so far. And I'd like to get into more detail. You know, my 
idea is, maybe call you up once a week, ten, fifteen minutes, and 
just kinda, you know, "flesh out" things, and...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
My opinion is that the Barings Bank collapse is not an isolated 
event. It is part of an ongoing series of scandals which, of 
which the Whitewater scandal and the scandal, the series of 
scandals in Italy, and in France -- there's some overriding 
connection between them. In other words, different factions are 
coming out of joint and are fighting with each other, and this is 
what happens. And the financial press is *not* making any sense 
out of it; they're dealt with as if they're all isolated 
situations -- which they may not be.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. With this (movin' to a different subject), with this thing 
of the 41 grand jury witnesses in Chicago, that you're sayin' 
that the Justice Department has got an assassination team that 
has been killin' people...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Uh, yes. The ones that originally contended that were the highly 
skilled lawyers, including the former Attorney General, Elliott 
Richardson, that represented the Inslaw company. And in rebuttal 
to former judge Nicholas J. Bua's report on the grand jury 
investigation of whether Inslaw was defrauded by the Justice 
Department, Inslaw's attorneys filed certain detailed 
descriptions, offering witnesses, that there is within the 
Justice Department [an] unmarked section where there is a group 
there that conducts domestic and foreign assassinations, and that 
*they* were responsible for killing a key witness, a free-lance 
journalist, by the name of Danny Casolaro.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah, O.K. What, what some of my readers were interested in is 
possibly a list of the names of the victims. I mean, you don't 
have to read, you know, it out over the phone. I was thinking 
maybe I would contact you by mail, askin' for a list of the 
victims if you have...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I think we have compiled a great number of names. In a federal 
court case that we brought, in the Fall of '92, on this question, 
we accused Bua and others who were supervising the Inslaw federal 
grand jury of not paying attention to the fact that *their* team 
of investigators were in fact terrorizing and murdering 
witnesses.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K....
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And we accuse, in the court record, a FBI agent named Mike 
"Chuckie" Peters of the same.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. A lot of this I've pretty much covered already through the, 
posted out on the Internet.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
All right.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
And one other thing that people have kind of asked me questions 
about is this thing that Tsar Nicholas II and the Tsarina and 
their family were not actually killed in 1918.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Well there have been a couple of books on this subject. And I 
myself, in '74, with a group of my associates, went to New York 
to spend two whole days interviewing Alexei Romanov, who contends 
(and I believe he's correct) that he is the surviving son of Tsar 
Nicholas II, and that his family were *not* murdered, as history 
books state, in a basement in Siberia...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
All right, so...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...but that they lived out their lives, protected by their 
cousins, the British royal family, and that they were housed, 
under another name, in Poland. And it's... well, you'd have to 
know a lot about history, you'd have to know a lot about this 
question, to understand the validity of what I'm saying.
 
Most of the royal families of Europe -- Russia, Germany, and 
England -- are cousins. They're related...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...through Queen Victoria. And, so the uh... And, in 1970, in one 
edition only, the *Chicago Tribune* wrote a story about this, 
confirming from inside sources that the Tsar, his wife, and their 
children were rescued and were not murdered in Ekaterenberg(?), 
Siberia, as some had contended.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
All right, so in the...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
I think that I have extra copies of that, and I will mail you 
one.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. What's... One reader...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And the *Tribune* has never recanted that story or corrected it. 
It's a correct story, from United Press International.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. One reader said that there's, there were actually movies of 
Tsar Nicholas and his family being shot by the Bolsheviks, from 
1918.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Not true.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Not true. O.K. And another reader...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
What happened is that the Rockefellers, that held $400 million in 
gold of the *Romanov* -- not the Russian government, but of the 
*Romanov* private fortune -- have a great interest to circulate 
those false stories. Otherwise they might have to disgorge the 
money.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And they were the ones that financed the movie, in the early 
'70s, called "Nicholas and Alexandra". And at the close of the 
movie, it shows... uh, you know: the Tsar and his family being 
shot to death.
 
You mean there's an *actual* movie of it happening? It's not 
true.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. And you would...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
It's *not* true.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. You would say the same for supposed DNA evidence, that 
that's not true?
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Oh, you mean that recent stuff that came out of the post-Soviet 
period there? I don't believe any of it.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And *you* wouldn't believe any of it either, if you had spent two 
entire days questioning and examining, you know, uh questioning 
Alexei Romanov. I mean, he's got the Tsarist family face, which 
cannot -- I mean, I brought artists along to look at that face! 
You can't reproduce that face. You can't fake-up that face.
 
Further than that, since he was a hemophiliac, as a child he wore 
braces. And we discussed some inside things about that, some of 
the things about wearing braces (which, of course, I'm a 
paraplegic myself) that he could not have known otherwise.
 
I mean, we tested him out on every possible aspect. And he didn't 
flunk a single question, no.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
All right, and what about this Anastasia? I myself am not totally 
positive on this. It seems to me that... I mean, I know there was 
this controversy over this woman...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Well... the, what happened is, at the time that the Rockefellers 
sponsored the Nicholas and Alexandra movie, to promote, to 
further promote the idea that the Tsar had been murdered, the 
reason for it is, the German high court at that time (which is 
about 1971) had the case of a woman who used the name "Marian 
Anderson", but who claimed that she was the surviving daughter, 
Anastasia Romanov...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Um-hmm [understands].
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...the daughter of the Tsar. And she did not succeed in court, 
but that does not mean that she didn't necessarily have a valid 
case.
 
And then in the '50s, about 1957, um... what's her name? The 
famous actress... did a movie called "Anastasia".
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah, I know the... I've heard of the movie. And I can't recall 
the actress either. [CN -- Ingrid Bergman(?)]
 
O.K. That's...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
In other words, there's been various efforts to further circulate 
and promote these false stories that the Tsar, the Tsarina, and 
their children were murdered. It did *not* happen. Those that... 
And the story that ran in one edition of the *Tribune* in 1970 is 
a *correct* story. They have never taken it back. They have never 
corrected it.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. I just want to close with sayin' most of my readers are very 
interested in your material. And I'm real happy that you're 
givin' me a chance to kind of expand on, you know, these things 
that you're saying.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
The Tsarist thing requires a lot of details. I have only 
summarized a *very* *small* number of details.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah. Uh, we're makin' progress, O.K., is... What I'm sayin', is 
that, before, I would put out these 5-minute commentaries that 
sometimes would raise further questions and, that I couldn't...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And the other thing that's in my 5-minute message, which there's 
gotta be a lot more details discussed, that you can't do it in 5 
minutes -- and that is the secret pact between...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah!
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...the Pope and the Western powers, which expired in '93. And 
there's a lot to be said about that.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. And I'm just sayin', see what I have to do is I've gotta 
transcribe this. And this should keep me busy for a few days, 
anyway, gettin' this stuff out.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
If this stuff isn't clear, call me and if I'm here I certainly 
will try to... I tried to summarize this quickly, but you know, 
we're "documentors", you know what I mean?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
And I tend to immediately supply highly detailed answers that... 
well, would take...
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
...It would lengthen the thing out.
 
Let's just say, I don't make idle statements. Let's put it that 
way.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. And the documents, I told ya that, you know, I had made 
copies of some of your commentaries and transcribed 'em. I sent 
those out in the mail to ya. Like I said, you should be gettin' 
'em Friday or Saturday.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
What is happening? In other words, some of the others on Internet 
are getting back to you with interesting questions, huh?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah! Yeah. And actually, I've *routinely* gotten these 
questions, and I've been in a position of not really *knowing*, 
you know? Sometimes I have *some* knowledge, myself, that I 
can...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Understand what our problem is: I operate without a secretary. 
And my associates are scattered all over. So we don't have a 
"secretarial staff" to speak of. And I have a listed phone number 
and address, and were I to get a lot of mail to my address, I 
don't think I could, you know, answer it. In other words, if 
questions came to me, how would I answer all these letters? Do 
you see what I mean?
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
Yeah, sure.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
So if they come to you, I'll... You ask your questions and I'll 
do my best to answer 'em.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. And when I get done with this, transcribin' this interview 
and sendin' it out, I'll send ya a copy. Just so you know that 
I'm representing you *verbatim* and I'm not...
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Right. And we welcome more questions about the Barings Bank. We 
are in touch with the most knowledgeable people on various 
continents about it. We've... We know a great deal about it. So 
we will have further messages, and I'll be glad to share the 
information with you.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. Thanks a lot for your time.
 
 
SHERMAN SKOLNICK:
Thank you.
 
 
CONSPIRACY NATION:
O.K. 'Bye.
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
     I encourage distribution of "Conspiracy Nation."
-----------------------------------------------------------------

