
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 5  Num. 76
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

JEAN LEWIS DARES TO SPEAK
=========================

Senator Pryor (D-Arkansas), speaking on C-Span's Washington 
Journal on August 9, 1995, asks, in response to a caller 
inquiring about the late Vince Foster's stop-on-a-dime trips to 
Switzerland, that people not believe the "hate mongerers" out 
there. So, to ask questions, to have doubts about the official 
story on Foster's death, is perilously close to becoming "hate 
speech". And as anyone who has attended a major university lately 
knows, "hate speech" is *verboten*.

Senator Pryor says that Foster's clandestine and mysterious trips 
to Switzerland "didn't happen". In this, he is contradicted by 
Ambrose Evans-Pritchard of the London Telegraph, James Norman, a 
senior editor at *Forbes* magazine, and others. So who are we to 
believe, a politician or some reporters? Tough call.

Senator Pryor asks that people not believe the "conspiracy 
theories" about the strange death of Foster. "Oh, please," he 
says, "For the sake of Foster's poor family, let the man rest in 
peace."

I have two problems with those noble defenders of the still bereaved 
Foster family who demand that anyone having questions should stop 
asking them. Number one, Vincent W. Foster, Jr. was a public 
figure. As such, he is not just the private property of the 
easily upset next-of-kin, but "belongs" to us all; we all have 
"standing" in the matter of his death and have a perfect right to 
keep asking questions -- even tough questions. Number two, I find 
it suspicious that the Foster family does *not* want these 
persistent questions looked into. Questions surrounding Foster's 
death have not arisen in a vacuum nor are they without merit. So 
why wouldn't the Foster family want them answered?

Why wouldn't the Foster family want them answered? It might be, 
as Norman and others are claiming, that Vincent W. Foster, Jr. 
was a spy who sold out his country for a few million dollars. 
*That* would be a good explanation as to why the Foster family is 
"satisfied" with the official investigation and begs that we stop 
looking into the matter.

But some of us still dare to speak.

Jean Lewis has also dared to speak, although regarding different 
circumstances. Appearing before the House Banking Committee, 
Resolution Trust Corporation [RTC] investigator Lewis charged 
that government officials had thwarted her investigation into the 
failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan. "This committee should 
know that I believe there was a concerted effort to obstruct, 
hamper and manipulate the results of our investigation," she 
alleged. {1}.

What is so daring about saying that? Lewis was close to the late 
Jon Parnell Walker, a Senior Investigation Specialist with RTC 
who had been trying to get the Madison case moved from Arkansas 
to Washington, DC. Soon thereafter, "Jon was looking over a 
possible new apartment in Lincoln Towers in Arlington, Virginia, 
when reportedly he suddenly decided to climb over the balcony 
railing and jump." {2}. So Lewis is daring in that, besides 
possibly harming her career, her testimony could lead her to 
"suicide".

Oh but hey, the "American people" are tired of hearing about 
Whitewater. No, what they are tired of is the stupid O.J. Simpson 
trial. The American people are intensely interested in 
Whitewater, or they would be if they were honestly told the whole 
convoluted story. Instead, they are given the impression, by the 
newsfakers, that Whitewater "is just a minor dispute over a 69 
thousand dollar real estate development." {3}. *L'affaire 
Whitewater* is bigger than that. It is, according to *New York 
Post* reporter John Crudelle, a "massive financial scandal, the 
likes of which has never been seen before." {4}.

The American people are sick to death of the putrid O.J. Simpson 
trial. "They're also tired of the media not asking proper 
questions about the Clintons," adds Sherman H. Skolnick, the 
Chicago-based investigator. "The way I describe it is, those that 
believe in 'fairy tales' have a hard time, in the beginning, when 
they hear what people like me say. If they've been believing only 
in the mass media, then they grew up believing in 'fairy tales' 
and in myths. My job, if I'm able to do it at all, is to disabuse 
them of the 'fairy tales' they believe in."

"If I only read the [Chicago] *Tribune* and the [Chicago] *Sun- 
Times*, if I only listened to the local TV, what could I possibly 
know? Not very much."

Skolnick, a long-time prober into Whitewater and related matters, 
makes the following prediction: "I now believe that, by Labor 
Day, the whole thing will be really heated up."

"Today [August 8, 1995], until today [the investigation] was 
nothing. But starting, I think today, there's gonna be real 
noise."

---------------------------<< Notes >>---------------------------
{1} Associated Press, August 8, 1995.
{2} "Murder, Bank Fraud, Drugs, and Sex" by Nicholas A. Guarino.
{3} "Whitewater, the Federal Reserve, and the C.I.A." by Sherman 
H. Skolnick.
{4} John Crudelle, segmented into ABC's *Nightline* on August 8, 
1995.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
