
              Conspiracy Nation -- Vol. 5  Num. 77
             ======================================
                    ("Quid coniuratio est?")


-----------------------------------------------------------------

CHARLES KEYS QUESTIONS OKC BOMBING INVESTIGATION
================================================

Tom Valentine's guest on *Radio Free America* (5.065 MHz, 9 pm 
cst, mon-fri) was Oklahoma legislator Charles Key. Key had been 
trying to get the state of Oklahoma to mount its own independent 
investigation into the bombing of the Murrah Building there, but 
without success.

Key had been mentioned previously in an article in *USA Today* 
("Okla. City conspiracy buzz grows", August 4, 1995, p. 2A), in 
which it was pointed out that Key had joined "a small but growing 
number of people in Oklahoma and across the USA who say there's 
something about the Oklahoma City bombing the government doesn't 
want examined." Representative Key was more to-the-point this 
evening when he stated that there has been "obstruction of 
justice" in the matter and went on to say that "It's been so 
blatant that it's been shocking to me."

"There's some reason they're covering this up," charged Key. 
"After awhile, they must think they can get away with anything."

"But they're not gonna get away with this," he added.

Of course, as usual it needs to be pointed out to newer readers 
(who may be wondering, "Gee. Why haven't I heard about this from 
the mainstream media?") that information is now being routinely 
withheld from the American citizenry by all traditional "news" 
sources. So, if you are wondering why the shocking, credible 
story that there is widespread disagreement as to, for example, 
even so basic a fact as whether or not a "fertilizer bomb" was 
actually used in the Oklahoma bombing, is not being reported via 
mass media and federal information channels, it is because these 
sources have long since been co-opted and are notorious liars.

There are exceptions. For example, according to Representative 
Key, the local NBC affiliate in Oklahoma City, KFOR, has been 
offering good coverage on *all* aspects of the story. But, sad to 
say, the other stations in the area are heaping scorn on KFOR for 
courageously telling the truth.

As alluded to in a previous issue of Conspiracy Nation ("Jean 
Lewis Dares to Speak"), those who ask the "wrong" questions risk 
the Orwellian accusation of "hate speech" and consequent gasps 
from pointy-headed liberals. Key also has suffered this, what he 
calls ("for lack of a better word") "political correctness"; says 
Keys, "Somehow it's wrong just to ask questions."

Yet Keys is not intimidated, not scared that he will be smoothly 
sneered at by the suckers and toadies of the dominant 
intellectual milieu. He goes ahead anyway, and charges that 
another tragedy took place today, besides the questionable and 
tardy indictments: "It's a tragedy when our own government... by 
their own choice refuses to look at certain evidence." Key claims 
that persons with mid-east connection have been linked to accused 
suspect Timothy McVeigh. This, according to Keys, has been 
verified by more than one witness, one of whom swears to have 
seen a person of mid-eastern appearance getting into McVeigh's 
car immediately after the April 19th explosion at the Murrah 
Building.

Host Tom Valentine affirmed that there is indeed evidence that an 
unknown person, possibly an Iraqi, was involved with McVeigh.

Supposedly, according to Mr. Key, McVeigh's attorney Stephen 
Jones "has some really *good* information" that will be coming 
out during the upcoming trial. Yet Conspiracy Nation cautions: 
watch out. McVeigh's attorney may not be all he seems to be. This 
is based not on any direct indication that Jones may be a 
government plant but on past government trickiness and deception 
in such matters. It should be pointed out that, for all we know, 
Stephen Jones is in fact an excellent and honest attorney who 
will fairly represent Mr. McVeigh -- but we shall see.

A caller to the program, claiming to be knowledgeable, backed up 
Mr. Jones' above assertion that many inconsistencies will be 
brought to light during the trial.

What can you do, besides call your congressman and demand a 
proper investigation? Representative Key advises, "Tell your 
neighbors." This is good practical advice. Talk to the people 
around you, tell them what you know. You don't have to overwhelm 
them, but even dropping some hints can help bring them to the 
truth. Or, how's this? Tell dad. That's what I finally did, I 
began to tell my dad about some of this stuff. I didn't clobber 
him with everything, but I began to bring him articles when I 
would visit and then ask, "Gee, Dad, I know I'm such a dummy and 
all -- but what about this? And what about this??" My father is 
now convinced that there has been a cover up in the circumstances 
surrounding the death of Vince Foster. He also now has questions 
about the Oklahoma City bombing. So what can you do? Tell dad.

Or you could even buy Mr. Key's video about the bombing, due to 
come out in about two weeks, then bring it home to mom and dad 
and have a nice evening hearing what he has to say. It should be 
"four star" entertainment. After all, as Tom Valentine says, "The 
Oklahoma City bombing may rank with the JFK assassination for 
cover-up and mystique."

-----------------------------------------------------------------
