_________________________________________________________________
STACKER NOTE                      Stac Electronics Technical Note

Subject: QEMM386 OPTIMIZE and STACKER version 1.x.

Tech016 - 2/20/92
Page 1 OF 2
_________________________________________________________________
Note: This procedure may be used with Stacker 2.0, however, it
is recommended that you use the SSWAP upgrade.  See tech030.

Introduction:

Quarterdeck's QEMM program allows device drivers (for
example,STACKER.COM) and TSR programs to be loaded into upper
memory.  This package also includes a utility called OPTIMIZE to
organize the loading of drivers into upper memory. However,
OPTIMIZE will not run as expected when the boot drive is swapped
in your Stacker installation.

1. During this procedure, you will need to temporarily alter two
of the files on your system. These changes may cause other
programs to not run properly. DO NOT try to run any other
programs until this procedure is completed and OPTIMIZE has
finished its work.

2. STACKER will work with OPTIMIZE, but the drive swapping
feature must be temporarily disabled. OPTIMIZE expects the
CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT files to be on the C: drive.

3.On a system where the uncompressed drive (usually drive C:) is
not swapped, OPTIMIZE will work properly when the necessary QEMM
files are on the boot drive.

4. Loading drivers or programs into upper memory requires a block
in upper memory at least as large as the amount of memory
required to initialize the driver or program (this is usually
larger than the 'resident' size of the driver or program).

5.If you use /EMS with STACKER 2.0 and the QEMM 6.0 STEALTH
option, make sure to add DBF=2 to the QEMM device driver line.
     For example:     Device=c:\qemm\qemm386.sys RAM ST:M DBF=2

Procedure:

1. In the CONFIG.SYS file, locate the line(s) which resemble
DEVICE=C:\STACKER\SSWAP.COM  C:\STACVOL.DSK /SYNC  Using a text
editor, add "REM " (without the quotes) in front of each of those
lines.  For example:  REM Device=C:\STACKER\SSWAP.COM .......

2. In the AUTOEXEC.BAT file on the UNCOMPRESSED (boot) drive,
exchange all references between the uncompressed drive and the
Stacker volume.

     For example: If the C: and D: drives are swapped, change all
occurrences of C: to D: and from D: to C: in the AUTOEXEC.BAT on
the D: drive.

3. Be sure that the following QEMM programs reside in a QEMM sub-
directory on the UNCOMPRESSED (boot) drive; OPTIMIZE will look
for them there:

           QEMM386.SYS (or QEMM.SYS if you are running QEMM 50/60
or QEMM-386 version 5.0)
           OPTIMIZE.COM
           LOADHI.SYS
           LOADHI.COM
           LOGOPT.COM (not needed for QEMM ver 6.x)
           TESTBIOS.COM
           BUFFERS.COM  (if you are using a version of DOS 3.x)
           RSTRCFG.SYS
           MCA.ADL      (if you are using a microchannel
computer)
           WINHIRAM.VXD (if you are planning on running Windows
3.0 in enhanced mode)
           WINSTLTH.VXD (if you are planning on running the
STEALTH option)

4. Reboot the system to make sure the drives and files are set up
correctly. You may need to continue to edit the AUTOEXEC.BAT file
and reboot until the the system boots without error. Typical
errors are "File not found" or "Bad command or filename".

       NOTE: At this point, do not try to run any other programs
on your system until the changes to the CONFIG.SYS and
AUTOEXEC.BAT files have been reversed. You will be prompted to do
this in Step 6) below.

5.  When you get the system booting with no errors, you may
change to the QEMM sub-directory on the uncompressed (boot) drive
and run OPTIMIZE. Refer to the QEMM manual for information on
running the OPTIMIZE program.

6. When OPTIMIZE has completed, restore the AUTOEXEC.BAT file and
the CONFIG.SYS file on the uncompressed drive to their pre-
OPTIMIZE status (ie, reverse the changes made in Step 1) and Step
2) above).

7. Reboot the system a final time to load the changes to
CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT into memory.


