______________________________________________________________________
STACKER NOTE                         Stac Electronics Technical Note

Subject: Upgrading to DRDOS 6.0 with STACKER installed.

Tech023 - 2/20/92
______________________________________________________________________

STACKER has been found to be compatible with DR DOS 6.0. This note
outlines the procedure for upgrading your system to DR DOS 6.0 when
Stacker is installed.

This procedure is NOT required if the following conditions are true:

    1. STACKER has not yet been installed.  Install DRDOS 6.0, then
       STACKER.
    2. The boot drive is NOT being SSWAPped, AND there is enough room
       on the uncompressed drive C: (3 MB) for the DR DOS 6.0 files. 
       In this case, simply boot up with the DRDOS 6.0 STARTUP
       diskette and run INSTALL.

Installation Procedure:

   Note: this procedure assumes that:
       1. Drive C: is the boot drive.
       2. It may or may not be SSWAPped with a Stacker drive
       3. There is enough disk space (3MB) on the Stacker drive to install
          DR DOS 6.0.

In the following sequence of steps, you will need to know which drive
letter refers to your boot drive and which drive letter refers to your
Stacker drive. This information may be obtained by running the SWAPMAP
utility which came with Stacker. One of the lines will look like the
following:

    Drive x: was drive C: at boot time

Letter 'x:' will be the boot drive. If 'x:' is 'C:', then 'Drive C: is
NOT swapping' and, in the procedures which follow:
     drive C: will be the boot drive, and
     your Stacker drive letter should be inserted for drive 'x:'.

If 'x:' is not 'C:' then 'Drive C: IS swapping' and:
     drive C: is the Stacker drive,
     drive x: is the boot drive.

1. Remove the read-only attribute from files already on the system.
Please insert your Stacker diskette into drive A: (or drive B:).
Change to the diskette drive by typing A:       (or B:) and hitting
Enter. Then type the following commands (ignore any 'File not found'
messages):

    SATTRIB  -R  C:\CONFIG.SYS
    SATTRIB  -R  C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT
    SATTRIB  -R  C:\COMMAND.COM

(In the next command, substitute the name of your DOS directory if it
is named something other than 'DOS'.)

    SATTRIB  -R  C:\DOS\COMMAND.COM

In the following four commands, if drive C: is swapping, remember to
use the boot drive letter you found above to replace the drive letter
'x:'. If drive C: is not swapping, use the drive letter of your Stacker
drive in place of 'x:'.

    SATTRIB  -R  x:\CONFIG.SYSc
    SATTRIB  -R  x:\AUTOEXEC.BAT
    SATTRIB  -R  x:\COMMAND.COM

(As before, in the next command, substitute the name of your DOS
directory if it is named something other than 'DOS'.)

    SATTRIB  -R  x:\DOS\COMMAND.COM

2. Copy the CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT files to the Stacker drive.
   If drive C: is swapping, type the following:

    REN C:\CONFIG.SYS CONFIG.STA
    (ignore a 'Duplicate filename or file not found' message)
    REN C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT AUTOEXEC.STA
    COPY x:\CONFIG.SYS C:\
    ('x:' is the boot drive swapping with C:)
    COPY x:\AUTOEXEC.BAT C:\
    ('x:' is the boot drive swapping with C:)

If drive C: is not swapping, type the following:

    REN x:\CONFIG.SYS CONFIG.STA
    ('x:' is the Stacker drive) (ignore a 'Duplicate filename or file
not found' message)
    REN x:\AUTOEXEC.BAT AUTOEXEC.STA
    ('x:' is the Stacker drive) (Ignore a 'Duplicate filename or file
not found' message)
    COPY C:\CONFIG.SYS x:\
    COPY C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT x:\

3. Insert the DR DOS 6.0 STARTUP Disk (Disk 1) in the A: drive. Then
   type the following commands:

    COPY A:\COMMAND.COM C:\
    COPY A:\COMMAND.COM x:\

(In the next commands, substitute the name of your DOS directory if it
is named something other than 'DOS'.)

    COPY A:\COMMAND.COM C:\DOS
    COPY A:\COMMAND.COM x:\DOS

4. Boot the system with the DR DOS 6.0 STARTUP Disk in the A: drive.

5. At the opening screen of the DR DOS 6.0 installation, hit the F10
   key to abort. Then choose "EXIT TO DR DOS" and hit Enter.

6. At the A> prompt, type the following:    SYS C:
  The system will respond with:
  Destination Disk was not formatted under current Operating System.
  Writing new boot sector.  System files copied.

7. Remove the DR DOS 6.0 STARTUP disk from the A: drive and reboot the
   system from the hard disk.
   This will start the system with DR DOS 6.0 and the Stacker drive(s)
   will be available. If any application is automatically loaded during
   bootup, please exit the application and return to the DOS prompt.

8. At the C> prompt, place the DR DOS 6.0 STARTUP disk back into the A:
   drive.

9. Change to the DR DOS diskette. Type the following:

    A:AUTOEXEC

10. The installation process for DR DOS 6.0 will begin.
    At the opening screen, press the Enter key to continue. Choose to
    install DR DOS on the C: drive and press Enter. Next, select the option
    to "Use the information in the existing file(s)".

11. You will now be asked to specify the drive letter and directory
    name to receive the DR DOS 6.0 files. Move the cursor to the suggested
    pathname for DR DOS 6.0. If drive C: is swapping, choose drive C:; if
    drive C: is not swapping, choose drive x: (remember to substitute the
    actual drive letter for 'x:', determined above). Also, change the
    'DRDOS' subdirectory name to the name of your DOS directory. This is
    because we want to overwrite the existing DOS version with DR DOS 6.0.
    Otherwise, there will be two DOS versions on the system at the same
    time - not a good situation.

12. Choose to "Replace all DOS files on the destination drive."

13. At this point you may choose either to skip the configuration and
    go directly to installation, or you may choose to proceed with further
    configuration.

14. Follow the instructions displayed on your screen to complete the
    installation of DR DOS 6.0.
When DR DOS 6.0 is finished, you will be given a choice to "Exit to DR
DOS" or "Reboot Computer". Choose "Exit to DR DOS".

15. If drive C: is not swapping, type the following:

           COPY x:\CONFIG.SYS C:\
           COPY x:\AUTOEXEC.BAT C:\

       If drive C: is swapping, type the following:

           COPY C:\CONFIG.SYS x:\
           COPY C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT x:\

16. Remove the last DR DOS 6.0 diskette and reboot the system from the
hard disk.

17. DR DOS 6.0 adds new commands to your existing CONFIG.SYS file.
When the machine is rebooted, DR DOS will ask if you want to execute
any commands from your previous CONFIG.SYS. This will particularly
affect the Stacker lines. Hit 'Y' to each of the questions about
loading the Stacker drivers. When the system has completed booting, use
your favorite text editor (or the DR DOS EDITOR program) to remove the
'?' from in front of the Stacker lines. You will also need to examine
any other lines which have been so marked. These changes need to be
made to the CONFIG.SYS file on the uncompressed drive. After making
these changes, copy the CONFIG.SYS file to the Stacker drive.

Also during bootup, you may see a "Bad or missing file..." message as
DR DOS attempts to find a DOS program or driver not copied to the
uncompressed drive during the installation process. Simply copy the
missing program file(s) from your DOS directory on the Stacker   drive
to the directory on the uncompressed drive where DR DOS is looking.

 For example, if you were previously loading the DOS file 'ANSI.SYS'
from the 'DOS' directory on the uncompressed drive, type the following
to update 'ANSI.SYS' to the DR DOS 6.0 version (as before, substitute
the name of your DOS directory if it is named something other than
'DOS'):

           COPY C:\DOS\ANSI.SYS x:\DOS   (drive C: is SSWAPping)
       or
           COPY x:\DOS\ANSI.SYS C:\DOS   (drive C: is not SSWAPping)

There may be other programs from the previous version of DOS on the
uncompressed drive which will need to be replaced with the equivalent DR DOS programs. You will need to search
both the root directory and the DOS directory for these programs.

18. Finally, some files from your previous DOS version may still be
located in your DOS directory.
These files have no corresponding replacement in DR DOS 6.0. Please
examine them and consult your User's Guide to see if they can be
deleted. Be careful not to delete anything which may be required for
normal operation of your system. Type the following to display a list
of these files (substitute the name of your DOS directory if it is
named something other than 'DOS'):

          DIR C:\DOS /A | FIND /V "8-23-91" | MORE  (drive C:
SSWAPping)
       or
          DIR x:\DOS /A | FIND /V "8-23-91" | MORE  (drive C: not
SSWAPping)

If you would like to send this listing to the printer, simply add the
characters  > PRN  to the end of the above lines.

    WARNING !! - DO NOT delete the files TASKMAX.INI, VIEWMAX.INI, or
DRDOS.INI. These files are critical to the correct operation of DR DOS
6.0. They will be included in the above listing because these files are
customized during installation and, therefore, the dates of these files
will be the date of your installation of DR DOS 6.0.


