                 GENERAL COMPATIBILITY ISSUES WITH WINDOWS 3.1

The introduction of a new operating environment often changes the interaction
between applications or utilities and the new environment.  The Windows 3.1
introduction is no exception.

The new Windows 3.1 has some minor compatibility problems with some Central
Point programs that were released prior to the release of Windows 3.1.  This
document addresses several of the main issues, such as:

1.    Windows 3.1 has changed its font handling, and the Windows TSR Manager
and Scheduler programs in PC Tools may exhibit changed fonts as a result.  Both
products work correctly otherwise; alerts and scheduled alarms will appear as
scheduled.

2.    Using PC-Cache with the /WIN parameter in Windows' Standard Mode can
cause a PC-Cache memory error.  Removing the /WIN parameter will alleviate the
problem.  Most Windows users will be running in Enhanced Mode; no configuration
change is required to PC-Cache for Enhanced Mode users.

3.    Central Point Backup Version 7.1 (which ships as both a standalone
product and as a part of PC Tools 7.1) installs a floppy device driver,
VFD.386, in the SYSTEM.INI file.  At installation, Windows 3.1 changes that
driver to its own (called VFD - no 386); as a result, CP Backup will display
an error message indicating that VFD.386 was not found.  Changing the line in
SYSTEM.INI that states "DEVICE=*VFD" to "DEVICE=VFD.386" will allow CP Backup
to run normally.

Central Point Backup, Version 7.2, which is currently shipping, uses a
different device driver, CPBVXD.386, which Windows 3.1 does not remove at
installation.

Future Central Point Software products will automatically configure the
software to work correctly with Windows 3.1.

NOTE:  Much of the information contained herein is based on problems found or
reported with Windows 3.1 BETA code.  This document will be revised as needed
to reflect updates or additions to any of this information.


              INSTALLING WINDOWS 3.1 WITH VSAFE/VDEFEND RESIDENT

Programs:  VSAFE, VDEFEND           Versions:  7.0, 7.1

SITUATION: 
Win 3.1 Setup does not run properly when virus detection programs are memory
resident.

CAUSE:
Virus detection programs are designed to monitor file integrity and to alert
the user if a file is about to be changed.  During the installation of a new
program, new files are written to the hard drive and existing files are
changed, triggering this warning feature.

SOLUTION:
Disable VSafe/VDefend for the duration of the installation procedure.  VSafe
may remain in resident memory, but Option 3 (general write protect), Option 8
(write protect executables) and especially Option 4 (check executable files)
should be disabled.  Option 4 triggers the warning messages.  Press Alt-V at
the DOS prompt, while VSafe is resident, to disable these options.

After Windows Setup has been completed, but before launching Windows for the
first time, run CPAV to update all CHKLIST.CPS files on the drive.

Alternatively, delete the CHKLIST.CPS files in all Windows directories using
PC Shell or File Find.


                   VSAFE RESIDENT WHILE RUNNING WINDOWS 3.1

Programs:  VSAFE                    Versions:  1.0, 1.1, 1.2

SITUATION:
Problems running Windows 3.1 while VSafe is resident.

CAUSE:
Windows uses the hard drive for memory swapping, which means that files are
frequently written to during normal operation.

WORKAROUND:
Disable Option 3 (general write protect).  Option 8 (protect executables) can
also be disabled if WNTSRMAN is issuing too many messages advising that various
Windows executables (.EXE, .COM, .DLL, etc.) are being changed.  To temporarily
change VSafe Options, press Alt-V at the DOS prompt while VSafe is resident. 
To make these changes permanent, change the VSAFE parameters in the CONFIG.SYS
or AUTOEXEC.BAT to "/1+ /4+ /5+ /6+".  All other options should be off.

WNTSRMAN must be loaded so that the proper messages concerning potential virus
infections will reach the user through Windows.


               WINDOWS 3.1 SETUP FAILS DUE TO LACK OF DISK SPACE

Programs:  DATAMON                  Versions:  7.0, 7.1

SITUATION:
Setup fails due to insufficient disk space.  A DIR command, typed at the DOS
prompt, shows that there should be plenty of space available.  Data Monitors
SENTRY is loaded.

POSSIBLE CAUSE:
Data Monitor is unable to determine that extra disk space is required so old
Sentry files will not be purged.

SOLUTION:
Use the Purge command in the File menu of Undelete to purge as many Delete
Sentry files as necessary to free up the required space.

If PC Shell or some other method is used to delete the files, unload Datamon
first or Delete Sentry will capture the deletions in the Delete Sentry
directory and no additional disk space will be made available.

NOTES:  *.GRP can be added to Delete Sentry's file exclusions list, since many
of these files are created and deleted during Windows Setup.


                   WINDOWS 3.1, SMARTDRIVE AND DATA MONITOR

Programs:  DATAMON                  Versions:  7.0, 7.1

The Windows Help file suggests loading SmartDrive AFTER Data Monitor, which is
contrary to our advice concerning PC-Cache and Data Monitor, and claims that
there may be problems if SmartDrive is loaded BEFORE Datamon.

Loading SmartDrive before Datamon should not cause any problems.  We have not
been able to recreate any problems, nor have we received any problem reports
from PC Tools users.  This may change after we have had an opportunity to
perform more extensive testing.


                            PC-CACHE AND SMARTDRIVE

Programs:  PC-CACHE                 Versions:  7.0, 7.1

Windows documentation states that both PC-Cache and SmartDrive should not be
run resident at the same time, which is certainly correct.  It is unwise to run
two cache programs simultaneously under any conditions.

There are no performance benchmarks running PC-Cache against SmartDrive 4.0,
and therefore no definitive statement can be made about which cache performs
better.  We have no reason to believe that data loss situations are likely to
occur due to the use of PC-Cache with Windows 3.1.


             PC-CACHE GIVES MEMORY ERROR ON EXIT FROM WINDOWS 3.1

Programs:  PC-CACHE                 Versions:  7.0, 7.1

SITUATION:
PC-Cache gives the error "PC-Cache memory error, reboot!" when Windows 3.1 is
exited.

CAUSE:
This error will occur when PC-CACHE /WIN is used AND Windows 3.1 is run in
Standard Mode.

SOLUTION:
Remove the /WIN parameter (which tells PC-Cache to free up memory for Windows)
when running Windows in Standard mode.  If the primary environment is Windows,
reduce the size of the cache.  Either of these options will eliminate the error
condition.


                       WINDOWS 3.1 AND PCT 7.0 GRAPHICS

Programs:  PCTOOLS                  Versions:  7.0

The Windows README.WR1 file warns of possible graphics problems when returning
to an application from PC Tools programs while in Windows Standard mode.  This
is true of PC Tools V7.0 but was corrected with V7.1.

Select Text Mode in PC Config/Display to correct the problem in V7.0.


                    WINDOWS 3.1 WITH CP BACKUP V7.0 OR V7.1

Programs:  WNBACKUP                 Versions:  7.0, 7.1

To run CP Backup/Win 7.0 or 7.1 under Windows 3.1, substitute "device=VFD.386"
for the "device=*vfd" driver in the [386enh] section of the SYSTEM.INI file. 
This is consistent with what is required for Windows 3.0.  If the user is not
comfortable with editing the SYSTEM.INI, reinstall CP Backup and the Install
program will automatically make this change to the SYSTEM.INI file and will
change "device=*vdmad" to "device=vdmad.386" as well.  If there are problems
with floppy drives after the installation is complete, this last line should
be returned to the default "device=*vdmad".

CP Backup/Win V7.1 will not save the Include/Exclude list correctly under
Windows 3.1.  As a result, the default settings and setup files may not select
files correctly.  The following alternate methods are available:

1.    Upgrade to CP Backup V7.2, which is optimized for Windows 3.1

2.    Create, modify, and save setup files in CP Backup/DOS.  The setup can be
used in CP Backup/Win under Windows 3.1, but should not be saved in CP
Backup/Win or the Include/Exclude list will be lost.

3.    Edit the WNBACKUP.INI or *.SET files with any text editor.  This is the
only way to change the default Include/Exclude settings for CP Backup/Win.

      The Include/Exclude list begins with [INEX0] for line 1; [INEX1] for line
2, and so on.  A maximum of 16 lines are allowed.  After editing the desired
file specifications, save as a text file.  All upper case letters are required
for file specifications in the Include/Exclude list.

4.    Files will be selected if the "Save File Selections" is checked when the
setup is saved, but this will not save the Include/Exclude list.

There may be some font display problems and screen anomalies that do not affect
the functionality of the program.


                            WINDOWS 3.1 AND DESKTOP

Programs:  DESKTOP                  Versions:  6.0, 7.0, 7.1

The Windows 3.1 SETUP.TXT file refers to problems running Desktop in Windows
from anything other than a .PIF file (DOS window, etc.).  Because we have not
been able to duplicate problems in-house, we suspect that this reference is
related to known problems between SwapDT and Windows.  Following is one such
scenario:

1.    SwapDT is resident before entering Windows;

2.    Run Desktop in any fashion from within Windows;

3.    Use the hotkey sequence to exit (instead of ESC or Exit from the main
menu);

4.    The system may lock, the computer may reboot: something unusual happens;

5.    The system may lock on exit from Windows.

If problems are encountered running Desktop from other than a .PIF, try
unloading SwapDT.


                          WINDOWS 3.1 LOCKS ON ENTRY

Programs:  VSAFE                    Versions:  1.0, 1.1, 1.2

SITUATION:
Windows will lock with the Windows 3.1 logo on the screen, or just prior to
that point.

POSSIBLE CAUSE:
Check for VSafe loaded after SMARTDRV.EXE in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file.  Another
cause may be that the CHKLIST.CPS in the Windows directory file was not
updated.

SOLUTION:
1.    Load VSafe before SmartDrive in the AUTOEXEC.BAT or the CONFIG.SYS; OR

2.    Update the CHKLIST.CPS file in the Windows directory;

      a.    Delete the original file and run CPAV to create a new file; OR

      b.    Run CPAV and select Update Checklist files.

      c.    Run CPAV and select Delete All Checklist files.  Then scan the
      entire drive to create new checklist files.


                   DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CP BACKUP V7.1 & V7.2

Programs:  WNBACKUP                 Versions:  7.1, 7.2

QUESTION:
What are the differences between CP Backup for Windows V7.1 and V7.2?  What
does V7.2 have that V7.1 doesn't?

ANSWER:
CP Backup V7.2 is optimized for Windows 3.1 and is intended as an upgrade for
those who upgrade to Windows 3.1.  Specifically:

1.    It provides support for Windows 3.1 "Drag and Drop" function;

2.    It has slightly different fonts, buttons, and screen displays that are
more consistent with Windows 3.1 standards;

3.    It handles the Enhanced mode drivers more effectively:

      a.    Setup leaves (or returns to) the default drivers DEVICE=*VFD and
      DEVICE=*VDMAD;

      b.    V7.1 uses VFD.386 in place of *VFD.  V7.2 uses a unique driver,
      CPBVXD.386;

      c.    V7.2 does not modify the *VDMAD driver at all as the enhancements
      are already in Windows 3.1 driver.

CP Backup/Win V7.2 also:

1.    Adds the "Select files for ..." button to make displaying the tree/file
list and selecting files to Backup/Compare/Restore easier;

2.    Corrects a V7.1/Windows 3.1 compatibility problem where the
Include/Exclude list will be blanked and no files will be selected if a setup
file is saved or selections are saved as the default.

Those who upgrade to Windows 3.1 and use Central Point Backup for Windows
should upgrade to CP Backup/Win V7.2 to take advantage of the new features and
for the Windows 3.1 problems that have been corrected in V7.2.  Note that there
is no additional drive tape support with V7.2.

CP Backup/Win 7.1 will work with Windows 3.1 for the most part.  The biggest
drawback is that it will not save the Include/Exclude Files correctly under
Windows 3.1, so files will not be selected correctly with any setup files
created or modified under Windows 3.1.


                      GENERAL WINDOWS 3.0 TROUBLESHOOTING
                        (Not verified for Windows 3.1)

INSTALLATION

Trouble shooting tips for PC Tools programs are included in the "Getting
Started/Tips for Windows" manual.

1.    Disable autoswitching/autosensing on video card if applicable.

2.    Disable ROM shadowing if applicable.

3.    Boot clean to eliminate TSR's and unnecessary drivers.

4.    Remove old Windows drivers or other OEM setup drivers.

5.    Update outdated BIOS.

6.    Check for IRQ conflicts such as a bus mouse on IRQ 3 with a printer on
COM2.


UNRECOVERABLE APPLICATION ERRORS (UAE'S)

NOTE:  Error is GENERAL PROTECTION FAULT in V3.1

1.    GENERAL DESCRIPTION:

      This generally indicates that some part of the application has mapped to
an area of memory not allocated to it or allocated to something else.  The
Windows environment may be very unstable at this point.  Exit and reboot the
system.  UAE's will only occur with Windows and Windows Applications.  This is
equivalent to the error message VIOLATED SYSTEM INTEGRITY, which will occur
only with Non-Windows Applications.  The same procedure should be followed for
the condition that causes both error messages.

2.    GENERAL TROUBLESHOOTING:

      a.    HIMEM.SYS may not be addressing the system memory correctly, and
      adding a "/machine" parameter may be required.  Refer to Windows or DOS
      README.TXT for more information on machine parameters.

      b.    Check the accuracy of hardware selections made during Windows
      setup.  Run "Setup" from the command line in the Windows directory.

      c.    If installed with APPEND or SUBST statements in AUTOEXEC.BAT, or
      with incompatible memory drivers in CONFIG.SYS, installation may be
      corrupt.

      d.    Check for incorrect DOS version.  Windows V3.x requires at least
      MS DOS 3.1.  When applicable, the correct OEM DOS must be used on the
      machine.  For example, use Compaq DOS on Compaq machines.

      e.    Check for applications that were written for a previous version of
      Windows.

      f.    UAE's may be product specific, based on code written for that
      particular application.  Check with the product manufacturer.

      g.    Confirm the following minimum configuration:

            CONFIG.SYS:

            files=60
            buffers=30 (if running SMARTDRIVE =10)
            shell=c:\command.com /p /e:2048
            device=c:windows\himem.sys

      h.    For testing purposes, substitute Windows standard drivers for
      drivers supplied by a specific manufacturer.


UNABLE TO GO INTO ENHANCED MODE:

1.    First determine if it is possible to go into Standard mode (WIN/S).  If
not, make sure there is 1 "full" MB of extended memory available.  Check the
extended memory manager (such as HIMEM.SYS) or other drivers or TSRs that may
be loading in CONFIG.SYS and AUTOEXEC.BAT.

2.    Refer to steps #1 through #6 under INSTALLATION in this document.  Check
as many as are applicable to the system.

3.    There may be a conflict in the Upper Memory area (between 640 and 1024k)
as Windows attempts to establish page frames where other device drivers, such
as network, video, ROM BIOS, etc., are located.  The easiest way to determine
if this is the problem is to exclude the entire range by adding a statement to
the SYSTEM.INI file, [386enh] section, EMMEXCLUDE=A000-EFFF.  If this is the
problem, then a diagnostics program, such as Quarterdecks' Manifest, will
determine where the conflict is occurring.  The EMMEXCLUDE statement can be
modified to encompass only that specific address range.  For testing purposes,
load a standard memory manager such as HIMEM.SYS.

4.    If on an IDE or SCSI hard drive, it may be necessary to add
VIRTUALHDIRQ=OFF to the SYSTEM.INI file, [386enh] section.

5.    If unable to go into Standard mode, make sure there is 256k of extended
memory available and an extended memory manager.  If unable to go into Real
mode, check the hardware setup.  Refer to #1 below.


OTHER TROUBLESHOOTING:

In general, if other erratic behavior occurs, such as dropping to a DOS prompt,
system locks, etc., try as many of the following as applicable:

1.    Disable any non-essential hardware or swap it out with other hardware for
testing purposes.  Contact the hardware manufacturer if necessary.

2.    Check system BIOS, video BIOS or keyboard BIOS for the most up to date
version.  Call the manufacturer if necessary.

3.    For non-FDISK, 3rd party disk partitions, it may be necessary to add the
following to the SYSTEM.INI file [386enh] section:

      VIRTUALHDIRQ=OFF

      This statement may be needed for IDE and SCSI drives.  It may be
necessary to disable SMARTDRIVE for drives with more than 1024 cylinders.

4.    Boot clean to eliminate TSRs and unnecessary drivers.

5.    Substitute Windows standard drivers for testing purposes.

6.    Check for file fragmentation, lost clusters, etc.

7.    Make sure there is sufficient free disk space; 2 to 4mb depending on the
machine and the Windows Application being used.



FaxBack document #82003, updated Apr 21 1992


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Salted Slug Systems                      Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
