NOTE!  This file was uploaded to CAJI by a user on July 5, 1990.  The
source of the information is unknown at the present time.  I can verify
much of the information as true and correct and is information that
could not have been known by anyone other than someone like me who has
worked very closely with the truth.  I cannot vouch for some of the
content, however, because I have not heard or seen anything confirming
such things as reptilians, planetoid spaceships, or mothmen.  I
strongly advise you to use cautionary judgement in accepting the entire
contents of this file as fact.  It was obviously written by someone
who has access to the same Top Secret information to which I also had
access.  It is also apparent that the author either has much greater
access or has mixed disinformation with truth.  As always I advise you
to seek your own truth.  The information could be true or could only
be partly true.  As you know nothing is censored on this board.

Bill Cooper
Sysop

***********************************************************************



THE RELEASE OF THE COOPER MATERIAL

There are many hazards involved with exposing information regarding
UFOs. It has not been until quite recently that any degree of safety at
all has been available for people releasing such information.  Were it
not for the fact that Cooper released his information so far and wide
and it filtered to so many people at once -- newspapers, legislators,
heads of state, people in important positions all over the world -- he
would have suffered severely.  But because it was scattered so quickly,
it would have been fruitless to silence him after the information had
been released. It would only have added  to the credibility of the
information.

At the beginning of 1990, there was still an active debate in  certain
circles about what to do about Cooper -- whether to deal  with him in a
threatening manner or to simply discredit him.  A campaign planned to
use approximately one million dollars worth of effort to discredit him.
The money was to be used to imply that Cooper made up or gathered
information from various sources and threw it together for a personal
financial motive.  It was not to come through normal media channels,
but through UFO magazines and newsletters in the form of articles and
exposes and through UFO groups, most of which are controlled.

Alternate UFO scenarios were also to be released so that by the time
1990 ended, many different scenarios would be floating around.  People
would be unable to decipher which one was true and which one wasn't.

As long as interest was shown in the Cooper material by only a small
group of people who happened to be curious about UFOs, there was to be
no action taken.  But if Cooper's material was taken  seriously by
credible people, these would be the target for the efforts to discredit
him.

Enormous amounts of previously highly classified information have been
brought out into the open.  We now have a situation where, individuals,
instead of being forced to remain silent for fear of assassination are
not afraid to tell what they know.  Too many have seen.  Too many have
witnessed.  They cannot all be silenced.  This is the beginning of the
end of the security surrounding this situation.  Therefore, the
following  information shall be released.




THE SPECIES CLASSIFIED

The present number of alien types having contact with the earth  right
now is nine, with seven being relatively permanent and five  being
influential.

Contrary to the information that the government might release, not  all
UFO inhabitants are friendly representatives from the Galactic  Space
Confederation.


ZETA RETICULI GREYS -- SMALL

Zeta Reticuli Greys come from Zeta Reticulan, near Barnard's Star,
which is a neighboring star system to Orion. They are very short
(about 3 1/2 to 4 feet tall), grayish silver in color and have no
sexual or digestive parts to their bodies.  They are created through a
cloning process of alien genetic engineering.  They are an ancient race
and have reproduced themselves for thousands of years.  They have very
limited facial features.  They have large eyes, a very small slit for a
mouth and no nose to speak of.  The eyes are large almond-shaped and
black.

They have evolved beyond the sexual reproduction process so that  all
sexual organs and their digestive tracts have totally atrophied.  They
are no longer capable of eating or indulging in sexual  activities.
They are a close relative to the insect family.

The Zetas are the ones involved in the cattle mutilations.  They absorb
certain substances from parts of the cattle that stabilize them during
the cloning process.  This can be placed under the tongue to give
sustenance and stability for some time.  It is a  substance that comes
from certain mucus membranes: the lips, nose, genitals and rectum, and
also from certain organs. These  glandular substances serve as
nutrients in lieu of eating.

Resting the substances under the tongue is not the only way they  get
nutrition.  You may have noticed that the cattle mutilations  generally
result in all the blood being drained from the body.  The Zetas have in
their bases canisters and vats in which animal and human organs float
along with a purple liquid to hold these parts in suspension. The Zetas
swim in the mixture and absorb the nutrients through their skin.  They
use hydrogen peroxide in both the absorption and elimination process.
The hydrogen peroxide also  helps to preserve the liquid and organ
mixture to keep it from  spoiling.

They have no digestive tract and eliminate through the skin.  To
eliminate, they need to pass the substance through some part of their
body, much the same way plants eliminate through their skin or outer
shells.  They use hydrogen peroxide for helping with that  elimination
as well.

The Zetas have also been referred to as the Little Green Men because
they tend to turn a shade of green when they have not received
sufficient food. When they are in this state, they are very  vicious.

The cloning of these aliens can be done quite quickly, reproducing
synthetic replicas.  They have a technology that is much beyond that
of humans and that has led to the agreements with the United  States
government whereby exchanges of these techniques could  occur.

The Zeta Reticuli Greys are not masters of their own fate.  They  are,
rather, subservient to a reptilian race of people from their  home
planet.  The Zetas seek, but are fearful of, freedom from their
masters.  They seem to have some desire to work closely with  humans in
an effort to retain the freedom they have on earth, which they have
never experienced before.  In their desire to retain that freedom from
their reptilian masters, they would hope to play the role of being
masters here on earth, or at least having enough control so as to be
safe from slavery by any other species.

The Zetas are of two social classes, one being hawkish, the other  more
dove-like.  The more dove-like Zetas are more refined and  capable of
more business-like behavior toward humans, while the  other type is
more abrupt, blunt and crude in their directness.  The Zetas desire the
help of humans in an expected future confrontation with the reptilian
masters who are expected to follow soon, within the next 20 years. This
refers to the so-called  asteroid that is on its way toward earth. It
is housing  approximately 30 million reptilian aliens.  It has,
however,  temporarily diverted its path as it moves into the
constellation of  Draco.




BELLATRAX GREYS -- SHORT

The short Grey, which is shorter than the Zeta Reticuli, is from a
star system near the Orion constellation, near the shoulder of the
figure in a star system called Belletrax.  They are shorter, much  like
dwarves (about 1 1/2 feet tall).  They are more indirect, but just as
vicious towards humans as the Zetas.

Both the Bellatrax Grays and the Zeta Reticuli Greys are  related
genetically from the same root race and look very much  alike except
for size.




ORION GRAYS -- TALL

The other type of Grey is the tall, big-nosed Grey. They have large
noses and stand about 7 or 8 feet tall. They are based in the  Aleutian
Islands and recently were witnessed in a park in the  Eastern part of
Russia.  These creatures are hostile, but less vicious toward humans.
They tend to try to influence through the use of political controls.
They have certain powers and technologies that allow them to perform
actions that appear miraculous.

In the Russian incident, a woman whose leg was deformed was  picked up
by these Orion Greys and was released thousands of miles away.  Her leg
was healed. The aliens did not heal her leg.  They transplanted a new
leg onto her body.

The Orion Grays give the impression that they are benevolent towards
humans, but they are heavily into genetic engineering.  They use humans
as guinea pigs to conduct various experiments.  They have grown arms
and legs and other body parts in a formless matrix made from human
flesh.  A leg may grow out of a torso, hands might grow from the middle
of the torso's stomach.  All this is done through the injecting of
certain genomes into flesh and the  application of electromagnetic
charges.  In this way they can grow human body parts to help deformed
or injured humans -- or for their own purposes of food and  sustenance.
They are interested in controlling the masses of the earth through
certain negotiated agreements with those in power.





ALL GREYS

The Greys are all, to some degree, influencing human history at this
time. The nature of the Greys, especially the Zeta Reticuli and the
short Greys, is that they do not have deep emotional feelings or
compassion.  They are very calculating, cold intellectuals and see
humans as being inferior.  They look at humans much the same way a
farmer looks at his cows.  They understand the passions and compassion
of  humans to the degree it is observable by them.  But they do not
have feelings.

These aliens are on the equivalent human level of cannibals.  They see
humans being an inferior species.  They are carnivorous.  The  Zeta
Reticuli Greys feed upon glandular secretions of humans and  are quite
capable of killing people for that secretion, or abducting  humans and
extracting the secretions for themselves.

The genetic manipulation is one way that the aliens see as evolving
and saving their dying race.  In a sense, humans are suddenly the
saviors of the souls of the aliens.  But at least it is a way that
humans may have an influence on the aliens.

This is not the first time that a civilization has attempted to absorb
an enemy rather than defeating it.  While the enemy invader may assume
that they are taking over, they are in fact being absorbed.  The
Tartars invaded Russia and within a hundred years were absorbed into
Russian society.




PLEIADEANS

Of the five, those from the Pleiades are entities who are distant
relatives of humankind.  They are related to and are the forefather
race of the genetic creation of humankind.  They are of a higher
spiritual development than most people on earth at this time.  They
have a kinship towards humans, and are essentially the only aliens who
can to be trusted by humans.  They have blonde hair and fair skin.
They are allied with the  Intergalactic Space Confederation.  That
doesn't mean that all entities of human appearance in space craft can
or should be trusted, for there are humans from this planet from
various governments who are working for the Zeta Reticuli Grays.

Some from the Pleiades are subordinates to the  Grays, having been
abducted as children or offspring of the  abductees. They have been
raised and trained by the Grays as  servants.  The humans from the
Pleiades have made several earth contacts, but in recent times have
suspended visitations to earth.

The  government was told that this was because of a space law that
states that the destiny of a people shall not be interfered with
unless it threatens themselves or others in the galaxy.  If the threat
of nuclear war became strong enough, these entities indicated that they
might interfere, but only to the degree of reducing that threat. That
could also set up a conflict between the Pleiadeans and the Zeta Grays,
to whom a limited nuclear war is seen as beneficial.

Since the humans have made an agreement and pact with the Zeta Greys,
even though there were warnings by the Pleiadeans against this, there
is now a "hands off" policy.  The Pleiadeans feel that the  humans have
made their bed and now they must lie in it.  It is not likely that
humans will be rescued from planned events simply to make things easier
for humans to overcome the masters they have agreed to work with.




DRACO MOTHMEN

In the constellation of Draco, there is another race of entities which
has in the past visited Earth.  They are 8-foot-tall, dark, nocturnal
aliens who appeared around graveyards and parks.  They have red eyes
that glow in the dark and wings to fly.  They are  referred to by us as
Mothmen.  They are also the source of legends  of the past relating to
gargoyles and Valkeries.  Even some  qualities of vampires have been
taken from the qualities of this  creature -- the ability to fly and
nocturnal habits.

The Mothmen have no particular influence on earth at this time  other
than as causing panic and a cause for curiosity.  They are  mostly
hidden underground and do not wish to attract attention.





DEROS/TEROS

There are also underground civilizations of non-humans that have  been
referred to as Deros and Teros. The Teros are more friendly  and help
keep the Deros, who are more demented, from having  excessive power.
They live underground in tunnels, cities and  sometimes under the sea.
Most of the legends of the past of leprechauns and trolls refer to
these non-humans from the inner earth.  The Deros are competitors with
the Greys, but they have similar qualities and cannot be trusted.





THE GOVERNMENT CONNECTION

Crisis management is a term used by the government to describe the
scenario where a crisis situation is created and then the people are
presented with solutions, usually three, which they would be reluctant
to accept prior to the crisis.  The solutions always involve the
shoring up of security, which necessarily means the loss of some
freedoms.  When the situation has reached the crisis stage, it appears
as if there is no other alternative. It appears as if the crisis just
happened rather than being carefully planned.
Crisis management is a way to create the illness for which the pill
has already been invented. By creating a problem in order to supply  a
cure that would not have been acceptable without the problem,  the
government is able to manipulate the people, making it look as  though
it is benevolent in handing the situation on behalf of the  people,
when in fact, it is directing the movement of the people  along a
specific path that has already been chosen.

The current drug crisis is a case in point, although there is a
connection to alien base funding that makes it a very special
scenario.  A tremendous amount of information has linked the United
States government with the drug trade since at least the 1960s. The
Christic Institute filed suit, but was successfully neutralized.

The government information that is being released is a subtle form of
convincing the public that the military must be used to do what is
really the job of the local police; for the military to shoot down
airplanes suspected of carrying drugs; for the military to be used in
foreign countries.

The coming currency call-in is related to drug money laundering.
There is a continuing call for the banning of all firearms because of
their use in criminal activity, particularly drug-related crimes.  The
ban on assault weapons will soon be extended to every gun.  A
declaration of martial law, with the resulting major security upgrade
to deal with the alien crisis, will be much easier when these things
occur.

The drug situation started out as a social experiment back in the
1800s.  There was a question of whether people could be controlled  by
the use of drugs and to what extent.  There was at one time a belief
that by getting the population hooked on drugs, they would work at a
cheap wage, with only the reward of food, shelter and drugs to keep
them satisfied.  The experiment, however, resulted in the realization
that those on drugs are not satisfied with working.  They want to steal
from  others and are willing to become violent to do so.

The experiment also revealed that while crime increases in the United
States would justify creating a national police force, the economic
structure at that time was not sound enough to pay for such a police
state. The  entire concept became less appealing and more hazardous to
the  government.

The experiment ran its course, and yielded little in terms of the
controlling effects that were desired.  The side benefit, however, was
billions of dollars in profits from the selling of drugs.  The drug
situation has assisted the funding of the aliens in building their
underground civilization.  Much of this money has gone into helping
them in their efforts to establish bases underground.  In exchange, the
United States got technology a promise that the aliens would not go to
war with the United States or other countries of the world.

The aliens gave the United States and the Soviet Union particle beam
weapons, laser technology, Stealth technology, some supercomputer
technology, information on cloning and synthetic genetic duplication of
humans, some medical breakthroughs, and technology associated with
frequencies, vibrations and the electromagnetic spectrum such as ELF
waves and rail gun technology.

The techniques of interdimensional travel have still  been kept secret
from humans.  About 15 percent of human genetic coding has been
researched by universities in the United States.  It has allowed them
to splice, remove, delete and add to the genetic code in order to
change it.  It can be used for destroying or creating diseases,
destroying or  creating plants, animals and other life forms --
anything that may be tampered with genetically.  This effort to map out
and decode all of the DNA available is one  of the reasons that many of
the creatures on Level 6 of the Dulce  Base were created or altered
genetically.

There has recently been a breakthrough in the need for blood by these
aliens, in that cattle blood has been altered so that it suits their
needs.  It is a side-effect from the experimentation that involved the
cattle mutilations.  Much of the blood and tissues that they need could
be supplied from slaughterhouses and there would be no more
mutilations.

There has been a continuing massive effort to fund the aliens  through
various means -- not only drugs, but manipulated oil prices and other
methods -- to keep them pacified long enough to  determine how best to
deal with them.  The choice was to coexist with them while secretly
expanding the country's technologies in order to deal with them in the
event of a conflict.  This has given  greater time for the technology
of humans to close the gap with the technology of the aliens.

It has been assessed that in recent years that the aliens have not
been honoring the treaties and agreements and therefore, are not to  be
trusted.  The effort to cut off their funding has begun, and one of the
routes for cutting off funding is to shut down the drug traffic and
the influx of money from the drug cartel.  Noriega was one of those
involved in helping set up the money  chain that assisted the aliens.
His arrest is a strong signal that the pipeline of money to the aliens
will no longer be open.

The  Colombian Cartel is also ceasing operations.  The shutting down of
the drug cartel is a first step in removing the power of the aliens and
pulling back from the agreements.  Government projections indicate that
pulling support from the clandestine drug trade will curtail the United
States drug problem by 1993, unless it is artificially stimulated again
as a pretext to martial law.  It may not be necessary however, if the
release of certain information makes national security paramount.

It must be understood that there was an enormous problem for  the
government when it discovered that the earth was actually  being held
hostage to an alien influence and that there was no  reasonable
technology for dealing with this alien influence.

President Truman made a considerable effort to engage in combat with
these aliens, but the technology of the United States at the time was
not advanced enough to even begin to have an effect.  Therefore, the
only option -- short of total obliteration of the human race in an all-
out war -- was to form agreements for building, expanding and funding
these bases.

Americans may judge harshly the government for its action, but it was
put in a very difficult and desperate situation in regard to national
security.  One choice was to inform the people.  Projections were that
they would become outraged, perhaps destroying the very fabric of
society.  Mobs were projected to demand military action against a
force which the government knew would be far superior.

Projections also indicated people would demand the resignation of
persons in office.  They would be perceived as having been making
deals with an alien enemy without the people knowing of this.  Under
normal circumstances and under the Constitution, that could be classed
as treason.

The government has functioned in a manner it perceived to be in  the
best interest of humankind.  Yet it has also been put in a predicament
whereby it could be misjudged as having worked in  collaboration with a
foreign invading army.  Had the government opposed the invaders,
however, it would have lead to mass destruction of humanity.  Even
nuclear weapons had little usefulness in dealing with foreign invaders
on our own soil.

The public cannot begin to understand what these people have gone
through in terms of soul-searching and trying to find the best way to
deal with the crisis which they were forced to manage.  The option of
informing the people appeared less viable and workable than to silently
make negotiated deals with the aliens to  keep them pacified over a
period of time in an attempt to find a  peaceful way of coexistence.
MJ 12 and those who have been subordinate feel they have done
everything possible and appropriate for the intense situation of
hosting aliens with much greater technology on the earth.

It has done all it felt was proper to preserve peace and to gain
information from the aliens in order to develop higher technology.  It
has also hidden vital information and shielded certain knowledge when
necessary from the aliens in order to create weaponry that may be used
against them in the event of conflict.

There is now some division and debate between those in the upper
echelons as to whether they should simply inform the people of the
problem or continue to keep it quiet.  Until this debate swings one way
or the other, it is relatively hazardous to release too much
information on this.  If it is decided that this information must be
kept quiet, many of the sources that are releasing this information
will become targets for harassment or assassination.  But the scenario
now reveals that unless information is released by the authorities and
is accepted by the vast majority of people, most Americans will not
accept the information from an individual that claims to have inner
knowledge of the government's cover-up.

There was an attempt to test whether the public would panic at the
thought of invasion from aliens. It was the radio broadcast of Orson
Welles in 1938.  The public reacted with panic and many committed
suicide.

There is an effort now to condition the people to be more willing to
accept an alien presence as a possibility using movies and television
--
Star Wars, ET, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Aliens, V, Alien
Nation and War of the Worlds.  All of these are presenting various
images and scenarios to condition the human mind to be open to what may
soon be reality. The government does  not direct a studio to make these
movies or TV shows, but scripts are submitted to certain people who are
silent partners with certain agencies to encourage the script to be
used and help find funding sources to keep the script alive.

The alien Nation scenario conditions the human mind to accept the
presence of aliens who are relatively friendly and who can coexist with
humans.  War of the Worlds, which contains a scenario of humanoid
replicas and aliens living underground, shows the conflict between  the
aliens and humans.  ET allows people not to be paranoid or fearful when
thinking of aliens, as they may in fact be friendly.  It gave people
the capacity  to deal with frightening information that may otherwise
cause serious insecurity.

Right now there are so many different types of aliens being  offered to
the human mind that people can accept or reject any or all of them.
People are gradually being conditioned to the possibility of being
informed officially.  If that time comes, there will not be a great
shock.  In 1938, people did not have the preparation, and even though
aliens on earth were already a reality, they were not even prepared for
a fictional representation.

Only now are people being told about the plan to set up a moon  base
that would later lead to a Mars landing and a Mars base.  There  has
been a moon base for quite some time, in the crater Copernicus.
The United States officially controlled the base until 1969, when  it
was learned that the aliens were working with both the Soviets  and the
Americans.  The Soviets gained the advantage at that time and took over
the base.

But even though there are competitions here and there, much of the cold
war was actually a facade in order to extract huge sums of money for
other purposes.  Much of it was being diverted to developing
technologies that have yet to be brought out and that  may be needed in
the event of conflict.

The Tesla approach has for many decades been ignored by the  United
States.  But it has been developed and used in the Soviet Union.  It is
now being used in the United States as a part of the  Star Wars program
to enhance and move further into the higher technologies.

The Star Wars technology is essentially designed to assist in dealing
with the alien factor and the potential conflict.  The Soviets already
have laser cannons, beam weapons, certain  types of shielding fields,
anti-detection fields that can be used to meet with other humans and
speak about plans without being  monitored by the aliens.

Much of the apparent corruption of the government is actually based on
this dilemma of how to deal with this alien situation.  There were
certain benefits derived from agreements with the  aliens as indicated
in the works of Cooper, especially in regards to the Trilateralists and
those who were involved in direct relationships with the aliens.
But this government was not alone in dealing with the alien situation.
The aliens were also connected with the Bolsheviks in the Soviet Union
and also the Nazis.  Much of the technology that the Nazis were
developing during the war was actually given them by the aliens, who
were in part behind the Nazi rise to power and the influences
associated with some of the hidden philosophies of Hitler and those of
the inner group.

During the time immediately following World War II, the sightings of
UFOs in various parts of the world were quite frequent, with an aura of
mystery and much government scrambling to discover what the purpose of
the aliens were.  The government was aware of their presence and had
agreements that reached back to 1933, although they were not always
sure what the aliens were up to during all of this time.  Later, the
technology exchange between the United States and these aliens began to
have its greater influence and the funding  action began.  It was in
the 1930s that the Nazis had closer ties with the Zeta Reticuli Greys.
More on that in another upload.





ALIEN BASES

There are alien bases in Brazil, Argentina, the United States, the
Aleutian Islands, China, the Arctic and Antarctica, New Zealand and
Australia, Canada and those that are underwater in various oceans  on
the earth.  There have been a number of bases within the United States.
Some of these were closed by secret raids of government teams  that
were especially established to defuse the influence and  presence of
these bases, particularly during the 1960s and early  1970s.  These
DELTA teams would go down into various caves to shut down certain
computers and in the event they ran into any aliens inhabiting the
caves, there would be an engagement. They were  successful in some
areas and failed in others.

This occurred in many more areas than just the Dulce Base.  Later these
teams were stopped by MJ-12 and a cooperative effort was made to work
with the aliens until it was again  discovered that the aliens were not
honoring their agreements and were not to be trusted.  Most who were
involved with such teams have since died for one reason or another,
often under mysterious circumstances.  Many of those who were working
to hinder the aliens were covertly killed, especially those who had
special skills in raiding these caves.

Most caves in the United States in general are usually safe unless
there are straight, carved walls and smooth floors.  Those are
generally artificially created entrances to an underground base.  They
should be avoided unless you would like to end your existence.
Likewise, those who see a spacecraft would be foolish to walk up to it
or approach it.  Those who have been abductees do not usually report
great benefits from the experience.

Generally, abductees have been used as guinea pigs for experimentation
and have disappeared permanently.  Many of the missing children have,
in fact, been taken by aliens.




ABDUCTIONS

About one in every hundred people has been abducted by a UFO  whether
they know it or not.  There is a blue ray which they use during the
abductions that captures people and beams them up into the ship. The
action of being beamed into the ship with a blue ray actually
suffocates the person, causing all oxygen to be sucked from the
person's cells, so that they hover near death for a moment.  Upon
arrival in the ship, they are revived by another ray that restores
oxygen into the cells.

Many abductions are of a quite cruel nature.  Humans would not  want to
remember what happened in some of the clinical experimentation or
examinations that occurred.  The aliens have a vacuum tube that follows
up through the rectum and around into the intestines, sucking out fecal
matter, which they examine for purposes of their own research.  They
are looking at the kinds of food that was eaten and examining the
effects on the person's  health.

They implant chips through the nose, the back of the neck and the back
of the head near the right ear during times when the subject is
conscious, but in a state of mental and physical paralysis.  The
subject is not unconscious as if they were sedated.  The aliens have
the ability to block the memory of the experience through the use of
certain injections and drugs into specific areas of the brain.

Zeta Greys abduct humans and use them for genetic experiments.  They
take the souls from those humans and put them in replicas and release
them after having altered them to some degree.  They may appear to be
the same person -- and the soul is in fact the same, the body is new--
and certain aspects of the memory and personality have been altered
slightly.

The aliens create replica bodies into which souls are transplanted from
one body into another.  This has been portrayed  on the television
series War of the Worlds.  This is a means by which these aliens snatch
bodies and control people to make them their own.

Much of this occurs in underground caverns.  When people who have
disappeared for some time and then are released, there is a
possibility that this has occurred to them.  The aliens do not see this
as cruel.  It is simply their unusual culture.

They have been abducting humans for centuries.  They see the earth as a
big farm and have been raising humans for their harvest.  They often
abduct them and take them back to their home planet to raise there as a
form of animal husbandry.

Their main problem is with their cloning process.  In the recloning,
each copy of each copy of each copy weakens repeatedly so that they
are, in effect, a dying race.  This has stimulated their interest in
creating a new being through genetic engineering, using human or some
other source as a new genetic substance to reenergize the cloning
process, or to create a merging of their own  race with another.





END OF COLD WAR, REPTILIANS HEADING THIS WAY

There is much that has not been released in the Cooper information,
which is generally very accurate as far as it goes.  Much more will
surface in the coming decade, eventually being given by people within
the government.

There is now a conflict between two factions within the government
agencies.  One faction sees the necessity of working  with the aliens
to set up a One World government in which it sees itself as being the
power behind the throne.  The other faction sees the aliens as a threat
to humanity and wishes to expose the  information, let the public know
and prevent the aliens from  gaining control of the planet.

Those who are collaborators with the aliens do not want the information
released.  They are continuing the cover-up out of fear that the people
would blame them, consider them traitors and hold them responsible for
for all that is due to an alien presence.  There  was a time when these
leaders realized that many humans were being sacrificed to feed the
alien appetites. They had a choice of making a clean break with the
aliens or at least of telling the people or of continuing the cover-up.
They chose not to.

The alien threat is the single major factor in the attempt to unify and
harmonize nations of the earth.  The threat is not only from those who
are already present on the earth in their bases, but also from craft
that have been recognized as being on their way to earth.

To stop this cooperative effort, there are certain elements attempting
to stir up heavy conflicts in certain areas, particularly to bring down
Gorbachev and his reforms.  These are being influenced by the aliens,
through their agents.  There are many people who have been implanted
with chips over the years and they are being activated now.  It doesn't
appear there is sufficient energy behind the the alien endeavor at this
time, however.  The money supply for the aliens which has been extorted
from governments and government agencies is gradually diminishing.
It's being cut off and is hindering the construction and development of
many of their projects and plans.  This has weakened them.

There is a hidden war in progress, but one that is not highly charged.
It is on a level of quiet competition between the aliens and the
governments of the world.  But there are certain elements of humans
that are working hand in hand with the aliens trying to help regain
control of the governments which the  aliens once controlled.

Within Cooper's material, there is a reference to the Fatima prophecy,
being that which aliens pulled out of the future.  The aliens claim to
have the ability see into the future and have helped bring about this
apparition.  Before the aliens revealed it, a longstanding theory by
this government was that the unreleased third Fatima prophecy dealt
with a nuclear war and its aftermath.  This prophecy was kept hidden
from the people.

What was not revealed, however, was that the alien situation was
directly linked to this nuclear war prophecy.  In truth, the aliens
were hoping to contribute to instability on this earth so that nuclear
war would come.  It was their intention to bring about enough
devastation on the earth so as to make the planet easily conquerable,
while still retaining some degree of human life to serve them as
slaves.

With their technologies, they can eliminate radioactive contamination.
They planned to inhabit the remains of the earth without any threat of
human domination.  But the scenario of the Fatima prophecies is in no
way  preordained.  Rather, it was a timetable of the alien plans to
conquer the earth.  It was scheduled to begin in February 1990, but  it
was not written in stone.  It was simply the intention of the aliens to
begin then.

At that time, it was intended by the aliens that the information about
them be released by the government so that humans would be prepared to
accept the inevitable outcome.  They had hopes of triggering the
exchange of nuclear weapons -- preferably in the Middle East where
people are expecting Armageddon to begin -- and then suddenly stop the
escalation with their own technology.  They would then pass themselves
off as divine beings and bring forth the Millennium.

There are certain efforts which are being attempted at present to use
the Book of Revelation to create the appearance of a coming Messiah.
This timetable for the Armageddon/Second Coming scenario has been
dashed recently by the lessening of the threat of nuclear war.  It was
at a fever pitch in the early and mid-1980s, but has since died down.
The aliens have, in effect, missed that window of opportunity.  The
people are not now expecting a nuclear war and the Fatima timetable is
of little use to the aliens.  But they have not abandoned it.  It has
simply been shifted to begin around 1992.

The government believes, however, that the people will not accept this
scenario as being true.  Many have been conditioned by the Book of
Revelation into believing that they will be rescued, but for the most
part people will not believe it and will assume it is in fact, one of
the false prophet Biblical scenarios predicted before the actual Second
Coming.

There is a strong potential that during this decade the aliens and
humans will clash in combat over domination of the earth.  There is  a
potential that this could be covert, but it may become overt.  The
possibility of reconciliation is growing more remote as the aliens
seem less ready to negotiate a situation in which coexistence can
occur.  It should not be ruled out, however.  Pressures are now being
put on the aliens which may lead to a more conciliatory stand.

This following information been deemed unsuitable for the public  at
this time and there have been and will be more killings to keep  such
information secret.

There is a threat of an invasion of 30 million or more reptilian
aliens which control of the Greys.  There are smaller numbers of
smaller ships heading this way, but nothing compared in size to the
small planetoid that is heading  toward this planet, which is
approximately the size of the state of  Pennsylvania.

It does not travel at above light speed as do other craft because  it
is so enormous and holds so many aliens.  It passed near the planet in
1989, dropped off some reptilian aliens and headed out to the Draco
constellation in early summer of 1989.  The timetable for the arrival
back to earth is approximately 2020, depending on what may happen near
Draco.  The Hubble Telescope has as its primary mission the task of
tracking the return of the craft.

The base in Dulce, New Mexico now has 100,000 aliens living within it
at this time.  Another 100,000 more have moved through the Dulce Base
to other bases.  The aliens continue to enter the earth at a rate of
20,000 per month.  The base at Ada, Oklahoma is still very active.  The
recent floods artificially created and allowed there were an attempt to
slow and hinder activities there.

The aliens are attempting to move their entire planetary population
from their dying planet as quickly as possible, prior to the arrival of
the Draco reptilians.  Presently, the assessment of those in the inner
circles who are dealing with the alien invasion threat is that the
Reptilians have every intention of ruling this planet.  There are many
who feel that the aliens have such a high technology that they cannot
be defeated.

The next potential scenario in relation to the expected invasion is the
release by the government of the information relating to the Grays and
their earth bases, but releasing it in such a way that is favorable to
the government.  Claims will be made that any other version is but that
of troublemakers.

If the release of information comes before 1996, and especially if it
occurs prior to 1995, you can be correct in assuming it is staged by
the government to set up the atmosphere for a One World government.  If
it is held off until 1996 or thereafter, you can assume the information
released is real and that the Reptilian ship is heading this way and
poses a real threat.  The Draco Reptilians do not really need the
earth.  They have more room than they need to grow and thrive.  They
simply want the earth as a kind of strategic  point in their battle to
conquer the entire galaxy.

The Pleiadeans may return by 1993, and you would know them by their
ships, which have the symbol of a serpent climbing a vine.  The symbol
for the Reptilians is a dragon. The Grey's symbol is a cobra.  There is
also a potential for martial law occurring in this country, in which
many of those troublemakers, who hold to the story that the government
was involved with the aliens in the abduction of humans, would be
rounded up and imprisoned along with many who have been implanted
because of potential threats to this country's security.  People who
are releasing this information are not fully out of danger just because
many people know about it.  You may recall that in China, just about
everyone knew what occurred in Tiananmen Square, and yet today, you
will not find anyone in China who will talk about it.  There is now an
open window in which people can talk, spread the  word, discuss it,
show the videos and photographs.  The more that occurs now, before a
martial law crackdown, the more chance there is of having the truth
come out.

Once that window is closed, if enough people are not already informed,
the information could still be curtailed and hidden.  At present, only
2 to 3 percent of the United States population has half of the story
and only one half percent has the full story.

                                                                                                                                         