John Lear has requested that the following file be published on ParaNet.
It is our philosophy to encourage debate on paranormal issues, no
matter how controversial, and we welcome his input. the information
contained in this file has not been verified by ParaNet, no do the
opinions expressed herein necessarily reflect those of the
Administrator or other ParaNet staff members. We can state, however,
that John is who he says he is, and has numerous contacts in sensitive
positions that could conceivably allow him access to information of
this type.

Statement Released By:

John Lear

December 29, 1987

John Lear, a captain for a major US Airline has flown over 160
different types of aircraft in over 50 different countries. He holds 17
world speed records in the Lear Jet and is the only pilot ever to hold
every airline certificate issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration. Mr. Lear has flow missions worldwide for the CIA and
other government agencies. A former Nevada State Senate candidate, he
is the son of William P. Lear, designer of the Lear executive airplane,
the 8-track stereo, and founder of Lear Siegler Corporation. Lear
became interested in the subject of UFO's 13 months ago after talking
with United States Air Force Personnel who had witnessed a UFO landing
at Bentwaters AFB, near London, England, and three small aliens walking
up to the Wing Commander.

Note to the Press: The government of the United States continues to
rely on your personal and professional gullibility to suppress the
information contained herein. Your cooperation over the past 40 years
has exceeded our wildest expectations and we salute you.


"The sun does not revolve around the Earth" "The United States
Government has been in business with little gray extraterrestrials for
about 20 years."

The first truth stated here got Giordano Bruno burned at the stake in
AD 1600 for daring to propose that it was real. The second truth has
gotten far more people killed trying to state it publicly than will
ever be known.

But the truth must be told. The fact that the Earth revolves around the
sun was successfully suppressed by the church for over 200 years. It
eventually caused a major upheaval in the church, government, and
thought. A realignment of social and traditional values. That was in
the 1800s.

Now, about 400 years after the first truth was pronounced we must again
face the shocking facts. The "horrible truth" the government has been
hiding from us over 40 years. Unfortunately, the "horrible truth" is
far more horrible than the government has ever imagined.

In its effort to protect democracy, our government sold us to the
aliens. And here is how it happened. But before I begin, I'd like to
offer a word in the defense of those who bargained us away. They had
the best of intentions.

Germany may have recovered a flying saucer as early as 1939. General
James H. Doolittle went to Sweden in 1946 to inspect a flying saucer
that had crashed there in Spitzbergen.

The "horrible truth" was known by only a very few persons: Thy were
indeed ugly little creatures, shaped like praying mantises and who were
more advanced than us by perhaps a billion years. Of the original group
that were the first to learn the "horrible truth", several committed
suicide, the most prominent of which was General James V. Forrestal,
who jumped to his death from a 16th story hospital window. General
Forrestal's medical records are sealed to this day.

President Truman quickly put a lid on the secret and turned the screws
so tight that the general public still thinks that flying saucers are a
joke. Have I ever got a surprise for them.

In 1947, President Truman established a group of 12 of the top military
scientific personnel of their time. They were known as MJ-12. Although
the group exists today, none of the original members are still alive.
The last one to die was Gordon Gray, former Secretary of the Army, in
1984. As each member passed away, the group itself appointed a new
member to fill the position. There is some speculation that the group
known as MJ-12 expanded to at least several more members.

There were several more saucer crashes in the late 1940s, one in
Roswell, New Mexico, one in Aztec, New Mexico, and one near Laredo,
Texas, about 30 miles inside the Mexican border.

Consider, if you will, the position of the United States government at
that time. They proudly thought of themselves as the most powerful
nation on Earth, having recently produced the atomic bomb, an
achievement so stupendous, it would take Russia 4 years to catch up,
and only with the help of traitors to Democracy. They had built a jet
aircraft that had exceeded the speed of sound in flight. They had built
jet bombers with intercontinental range that could carry weapons of
enormous destruction. The post war era, and the future, seemed bright.
Now imagine what it was like for those same leaders, all of whom had
witnessed the panic of Orsen Wells' radio broadcast, "The War of the
Worlds," in 1938. Thousands of Americans panicked at a realistically
presented invasion of Earth by beings from another planet. Imagine
their horror as they actually viewed the dead bodies of those
frightening looking little creatures with enormous eyes, reptilian skin
and claw like fingers. Imagine their shock as they attempted to
determine how these strange "saucers" were powered and could discover
no part even remotely similar to components they were familiar with: no
cylinders or pistons, no vacuum tubes or turbines or hydraulic
actuators. It is only when you fully understand the overwhelming
helplessness the government was faced with in the late 40s that you can
comprehend their perceived need for a total, thorough and sweeping
cover-up, to include the use of "deadly force". The cover-up was so
successful that as late as 1985, a senior scientist with the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, Dr. Al Hibbs, would look
at a video tape of an enormous flying saucer and state on the record,
"I'm not going to assign anything to that phenomena without a lot more
data". Dr. Hibbs was looking at the naked emperor and saying, "He
certainly looks naked, but that doesn't prove he's naked".

In July of 1952, a panicked government watched helplessly as a squadron
of "flying saucers" flew over Washington, D.C., and buzzed the White
House, the Capitol Building, and the Pentagon. It took all the
imagination and intimidation the government could muster to force that
incident out of the memory of the public.

Thousands of sightings occurred during the Korean War and several more
saucers were retrieved by the Air Force. Some were stored at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, some were stored at Air Force bases
near the location of the crash site.

One saucer was so enormous and the logistic problems in transportation
so enormous that it was buried at the crash site and remains there
today. The stories are legendary on transporting crashed saucers over
long distances, blocking major highways, sometimes driving 2 or 3
lo-boys in tandem with an extraterrestrial load a hundred feet in
diameter.

On April 30, 1964, the first communication between the aliens and the
U.S. Government took place at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico.
Three saucers landed at a pre-arranged area and a meeting was held
between the aliens and intelligence officers of the U.S. Government.

During the period of 1969-1971, MJ-12 representing the U.S. Government
made a deal with these creatures, called EBE's (Extraterrestrial
Biological Entities, named by Detley Bronk, original MJ-12 member and
6th President of Johns Hopkins University). The "deal" was that in
exchange for "technology" that they would provide to us, we agreed to
"ignore" the abductions that were going on and suppress information on
the cattle mutilations. The EBE's assured MJ-12 that the abductions
(usually lasting about 2 hours) were merely the ongoing monitoring of
developing civilizations.

In fact, the purposes for the abductions turned out to be:

(1) The insertion of a 3mm spherical device through the nasal cavity of
the abductee into the brain. The device is used for the biological
monitoring, tracking, and control of the abductee.

(2) Implementation of Posthypnotic Suggestion to carry out a specific
activity during a specific time period, the actuation of which will
occur within the next 2 to 5 years.

(3) Termination of some people so that they could function as living
sources for biological material and substances.

(4) Termination of individuals who represent a threat to the
continuation of their activity.

(5) Effect genetic engineering experiments.

(6) Impregnation of human females and early termination of pregnancies
to secure the crossbreed infant.

The U.S. Government was not initially aware of the far reaching
consequences of their "deal". They were led to believe that the
abductions were essentially benign and since they figured the
abductions would probably go on anyway whether they agreed or not, they
merely insisted that a current list of abductees be submitted, on a
periodic basis, to MJ-12 and the National Security Council. Does this
sound incredible? An actual list of abductees sent to the National
Security Council? Read on, because I have news for you.

The EBE's have a genetic disorder in that their digestive system is
atrophied and not functional. Some speculate that they were involved in
some type of accident or nuclear war, or possibly on the back side of
an evolutionary genetic curve. In order to sustain themselves, they use
an enzyme or hormonal secretion obtained from the tissue that they
extract from humans and animals. (Note: Cows and Humans are genetically
similar. In the event of a national disaster, cow's blood can be used
by humans.)

The secretions obtained are then mixed with hydrogen peroxide and
applied to the skin by spreading or dipping parts of their bodies in
the solution. The body absorbs the solution, then excretes the waste
back through the skin. The cattle mutilations that were prevalent
throughout the period from 1973 to 1983 and publicly noted through
newspaper and magazine stories and including a documentary produced by
Linda Howe for the Denver CBS affiliate KMGH-TV, were for the
collection of these tissues by the aliens. The mutilations included
genitals taken, rectums cored out to the colon, eyes, tongue and throat
all surgically removed with extreme precision. In some cases the
incisions were made by cutting between the cells, a process we are not
yet capable of performing in the field. In many of the mutilations
there was no blood found at all in the carcass, yet there was no
vascular collapse of the internal organs. This has been also noted in
the human mutilations, one of the first of which was Sgt. Jonathan P.
Louette at the White Sands Missile Test Range in 1956, who was found
three days after an Air Force Major had witnessed his abduction by a
"disk shaped" object at 0300 while on a search for missile debris
downrange. His genitals had been removed, rectum cored out in a
surgically precise "plug" up to colon, eyes removed and all blood
removed, again, no vascular collapse. From some of the evidence it is
apparent that this surgery is accomplished, in most cases, while the
victim, animal or human, is still alive.

The various parts of the body are taken to various underground
laboratories, one of which is known to be near the small New Mexico
town of Dulce. This jointly occupied (CIA-Alien) facility has been
described as enormous, with huge tiled walls that "go on forever".
Witnesses have reported huge vats filled with amber liquid with parts
of human bodies being stirred inside.

After the initial agreement, Groom Lake, one of the nations most secret
test centers, was closed for a period of about a year, sometime about
1972 or 1974, and a huge underground facility was constructed for and
with the help of the EBE's. The "bargained for" technology was set in
place but could only be operated by the EBE's themselves. Needless to
say, the advanced technology could not be used against the EBE's
themselves, even if needed.

During the period between 1979 and 1983 it became increasingly obvious
to MJ-12 that things were not going as planned. It became known that
many more people (in the thousands) were being abducted than were
listed on the official abduction lists. In addition, it became obvious
that some, not all, but some of the nation's missing children had been
used for secretions and other parts required by the aliens.

In 1979 there was an altercation of sorts at the Dulce laboratory. A
special armed forces unit was called in to try and free a number of our
people trapped in the facility, who had become aware of what was really
going on. According to one source, 66 of the soldiers were killed and
our people were not freed.

By 1984, MJ-12 must have been in stark terror at the mistake they had
made in dealing with the EBE's. They had subtly promoted "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind" and "E.T." to get the public used to
looking at aliens that were compassionate, benevolent and very much
"space brothers". MJ-12 "sold" the EBE's to the public, and were now
faced with the fact that quite the opposite was true. In addition, a
plan was formulated in 1968 to make the public aware of the existence
of the aliens on Earth over the next 20 years to be culminated with
several documentaries to be released during 1985-1987. These
documentaries would explain the history and intentions of the aliens.
The discovery of the "Grand Deception" put the entire plans, hopes and
dreams of MJ-12 into utter confusion and panic.

Meeting at the "Country Club", a remote lodge with private golf course,
comfortable sleeping and working quarters, and its own private airstrip
built by and exclusively for the members of MJ-12, it was a factional
fight of what to do now. Part of MJ-12 wanted to confess the whole
scheme and shambles it had become to the public, beg their forgiveness
and ask for their support. The other part (and majority) of MJ-12
argued that there was no way they could do that, that the situation was
untenable and there was no use in exciting the public with the
"horrible truth" and that the best plan was to continue the development
of a weapon that could be used against the EBE's under the guise of
"SDI", the Strategic Defense Initiative, which had nothing whatsoever
to do with a defense for inbound Russian nuclear missiles. As these
words are written, Dr. Edward Teller, "father" of the H-Bomb, is
personally in the test tunnels of the Nevada Test Site, driving his
workers and associates in the words of one, "like a man possessed". And
well he should, for Dr. Teller is a member of MJ-12, along with Dr.
Kissinger, Admiral Bobby Inman, and possibly Admiral Poindexter, to
name a few of the current members.

Before the "Grand Deception" was discovered and according to a
meticulous plan of metered release of information to the public,
several documentaries and video tapes were made. William Moore, a
Burbank, California, based UFO researcher who wrote "The Roswell
Incident," a book published in 1980 that detailed the crash, recovery
and subsequent cover-up of a UFO with 4 alien bodies, has a video tape
of 2 newsmen interviewing a military officer associated with MJ-12.
This military officer answers questions relating to the history of
MJ-12 and the cover-up, the recovery of a number of flying saucers and
the existence of a live alien (one of 3 living aliens captured and
designated, or named, EBE-1, EBE-2, and EBE-3, being held in a facility
designated as YY-II at Los Alamos, New Mexico. The only other facility
of this type, which is electromagnetically secure, is at Edwards Air
Force Base in Mojave, California). The officer names as previously
mentioned plus a few others: Harold Brown, Richard Helms, Gen. Vernon
Walters, JPL's Dr. Lew Allen and Dr. Theodore von Karman, to name a few
of the current and past members of MJ-12.

The officer also relates the fact that the EBE's claim to have created
Christ. The EBE's have a type of recording device that has recorded all
of Earth's history and can display it in the form of a hologram. This
hologram can be filmed but because of the way holograms work does not
come out very clear on movie film or video tape. The crucifixion of
Christ on the Mount of Olives has allegedly been put on film to show
the public. The EBE's claim to have created Christ, which, in view of
the "Grand Deception", could be an effort to disrupt traditional values
for undetermined reasons.

Another video tape allegedly in existence is an interview with an EBE.
Since EBE's communicate telepathically, an Air Force Colonel serves as
an interpreter. Just before the recent stock market correction in
October 1987, several newsmen, including Bill Moore, had been invited
to Washington, D.C., to personally film the EBE in a similar type
interview, and distribute the film to the public. Apparently, because
of the correction in the market, it was felt the timing was not right.
In any case, it certainly seems like an odd method to inform the public
of extraterrestrials, but it would be in keeping with the actions of a
panicked organization who at this point in time doesn't know which way
to turn.

Moore is also in possession of more Aquarius documents, a few pages of
which leaked out several years ago and detailed the supersecret NSA
project which had been denied by them until just recently. In a letter
to Senator John Glenn, NSA's Director of Policy, Julia B. Wetzel,
wrote, "Apparently there is or was an Air Force project with that name
(Aquarius) which dealt with UFO's. Coincidentally, there is also an NSA
project by that Name." NSA's project Aquarius deals specifically the
"communications with the aliens" (the EBE's). Within the program was
project "Snowbird", a project to test-fly a recovered alien aircraft at
Groom Lake, Nevada. This project continues today at that location. In
the words of an individual who works at Groom Lake, "Our people are
much better at taking things apart than they are at putting them back
together."

Moore, who claims he has a contact with MJ-12, feels that they have
been stringing him along, slipping him documents and providing him
leads, promising to go public with some of the information on
extraterrestrials by the end of 1987.

Certain of Moore's statements lead one to believe that Moore himself is
a government agent working for MJ-12, not to be strung along, but
string along ever hopeful UFOlogists that the truth is just around the
corner.

Consider:

1. Moore states emphatically that he is not a government agent,
although when Lee Graham, (a Southern California based UFOlogist) was
investigated by DIS (Defense Investigative Service) for possession of
classified documents received from Moore, Moore himself was not.

2. Moore states emphatically that the cattle mutilations of 1973-1983
were a hoax by Linda Howe (producer of "A Strange Harvest") to create
publicity for herself. He cites the book "Mute Evidence" as the bottom
line of the hoax. "Mute Evidence" was a government sponsored book to
explain the mutilations in conventional terms.

3. Moore states that the U.S.A.F. Academy physics book, "Introductory
Space Science", vol. II, chapter 13, entitled "Unidentified Flying
Objects", which describes four of the most commonly seen aliens (one of
which is the EBE) was written by Lt. Co. Edward Therkelson and Major
Donald B. Carpenter, Air Force personnel who did not know what they
were talking about and were merely siting "crackpot" references. He,
Moore, states that the book was withdrawn to excise the chapter.

If the government felt they were being forced to acknowledge the
existence of aliens on Earth because of the overwhelming evidence such
as the October and November sightings in Wytheville, VA., and recently
released books such as "Night Siege" (Hynek, J. Allen; Imbrogno,
Phillip J.; Pratt, Bob: Night Siege, Ballantine Books, Random House,
New York), and taking into consideration the "grand deception" and
obviously hostile intentions of the EBE's, it might be expedient for
MJ-12 to admit the EBE's but conceal the information on the mutilations
and abductions. If MJ-12 and Moore were in some kind of agreement then
it would be beneficial to Moore to tow the party line. For example,
MJ-12 would say ... "here are some more genuine documents ... but
remember ... no talking about the mutilations or abductions". This
would be beneficial as it would supply the evidence to support his
theory that E.T.'s exist but deny the truths about the E.T.'s. However,
if Moore was indeed working for MJ-12, he would follow the party line
anyway ... admitting the E.T.'s but pooh-poohing the mutilations and
abductions. If working alone, Moore might not even be aware of the
"grand deception."

Time will tell. It is possible that Moore will go ahead and release the
video interview with the military officer around the first of the year,
as he has promised. From MJ-12's point of view, the public would be
exposed to the information without really having to believe it. Moore
is essentially not as creditable a source as, say, the President of the
United States. After a few months of digestion and discussion, a more
credible source could emerge with a statement that yes in fact this was
essentially factual. This scenario would cushion the blow to the
public. If, however, Moore does not release the tape by, say, February
1, 1988, but comes instead with a story similar: "MJ-12 has informed me
that they are definitely planning a release of all information by
October of 88. I have seen the plan and have seen the guarantee that
this will happen, so I have decided to withhold the release of my video
tape at this time as it may cause some problems with MJ-12's plans"
This would in effect buy more time for MJ-12 and time is what they
desperately need.

Now you ask, "Why haven't I heard any of this?" Who do you think you
would hear it from? Dan Rather? Tom Brokaw? Sam Donaldson? Wrong. These
people just read the news, they don't find it. There are ladies who
call and interview witnesses and verify statements on coming over the
wire (either AP or UPI). It's not like Dan Rather would go down to
Wytheville, Virginia, and dig into why there were 4 THOUSAND sightings
in October and November of 1987. Better that Brokaw or sondish ideas,
regardless of how many people report sightings of 900 foot objects
running them off the road. In the case of the Wytheville sighting,
dozens of vans with NASA lettered on the side failed to interest
newsmen. And those that asked questions were informed that NASA was
doing a weather survey.

Well, then, you ask, what about our scientists? What about Carl Sagan?
Isaac Asimov? Arthur C. Clark? Wouldn't they have known? If Carl Sagan
knows then he is committing a great fraud through the solicitation of
memberships in the Planetary Society, "to search for extraterrestrial
intelligence". Another charade into which the U.S. Government dumps
millions of dollars every year is the radiotelescope in Arecibo, Puerto
Rico, operated by Cornell University with  -- guess who? -- Carl Sagan.
Cornell is ostensibly searching for signals from Outer Space, a sign
maybe that somebody is out there. It is hard to believe that relatively
intelligent astronomers like Sagan could be so ignorant.

What about Isaac Asimov? Surely the most prolific science fiction
writer of all time would have guessed by now that there must be an
enormous cover-up? Maybe, but if he knows he's not saying. Perhaps he's
afraid that Foundation and Empire will turn out to be inaccurate.

What about Arthur C. Clarke? Surely the most technically accurate of
Science Fiction writers with very close ties to NASA would have at
least a hint of what's really going on. Again, if so, he isn't talking.
In a recent Science Fiction survey, Clarke estimates that contact with
extraterrestrial intelligent life would not occur before the 21st
Century.

If the government won't tell us the truth and the major networks won't
even give it serious consideration, then what is the big picture,
anyway? Are the EBE's having done a hundred thousand or more abductions
(possibly millions worldwide), built an untold number of secret
underground bases (Groom Lake, Nevada; Sunspot, Datil, Roswell and Pine
Town, New Mexico, just to name a few) getting ready to return to
wherever they came from? Or, from the obvious preparations are we to
assume that they are getting ready for a big move? Or is the more
sinister and most probable situation that the invasion is essentially
complete and it is all over but the screaming?

A well planned invasion of Earth for it's resources and benefits would
not begin with mass landings of ray-gun equipped aliens. A properly
planned and executed invasion by a civilization thousands and probably
hundreds of thousands of years in advance of us would most likely be
complete before even a handful of people -- say 12? -- realized what
was happening. No fuss, no muss. The best advice I can give you is
this: Next time you see a flying saucer and are awed by its obvious
display of technology and gorgeous lights of pure color -- RUN LIKE
HELL!
