(Part 3 of 4)

                          ****************
                          * CONFIDENTIAL *
                          ****************


           A SITUATION REPORT ON OUR ACQUISITION OF ADVANCED
            TECHNOLOGY AND INTERACTION WITH ALIEN CULTURES

                            by O.H. KRILL




The Men in Black

     All things considered, UFO research has become pretty much of 
a circus today, and the most intriguing and controversial sideshow 
skirting the edges is the question of the "silencers," or the 
mysterious "Men in Black." There is a strong subliminal appeal in 
these accounts of visits by mysterious dark-suited figures (I have 
been visited myself, as have others I've known) attempting to 
silence UFO witnesses. A typical situation would be that a witness 
has a UFO sighting or UFO-related experience. Shortly thereafter 
he is visited by one or more "odd"-looking men who relate to him 
the minutest details of his experience, even though he has as yet 
told no one for fear of ridicule or other reasons.
     The men warn him about spreading the story of his experience 
around and sometimes even threaten him personally, sometimes 
obliquely, sometimes directly. Any evidence, if it exists, is 
confiscated in one way or another. Sometimes the visit is for some 
totally meaningless reason and the subject of UFOs is hardly 
mentioned, if at all. But again, the men all seem to look alike.
     We actually seem to find ourselves in close proximity to 
beings who obviously must be directly connected in some way with 
the objects themselves or the source behind them, yet they seem to 
be functioning unobtrusively within the framework of our own 
everyday existence.
     The classic conception of an MIB is a man of indefinite age, 
medium height and dressed completely in black. He always has a 
black hat and often a black turtleneck sweater. They present an 
appearance often described as "strange" or "odd." They speak in a 
dull monotone voice, "like a computer," and are dark-complected 
with high cheekbones, thin lips, pointed chin, and eyes that are 
mildly slanted.
     The visitors themselves are often on absurd missions. They 
have reportedly posed as salesmen, telephone repairmen or 
representatives from official or unofficial organizations. Their 
mode of transportation is usually large and expensive cars -- 
Buicks or Lincolns, sometimes Cadillacs, all black, of course.
     I might note at this point that their physical appearance 
also has included beings that have pale-greyish skin, and that 
some of them have been seen to have blond hair, yet they wear the 
clothing and drive the cars previously described.
     Their cars often operate with the headlights off, but ghostly 
purple or greenish glows illuminate the interior. Unusual insignia 
have been seen emblazoned on the doors and the license plates are 
always unidentifiable or untraceable.
     The fabric of their clothes has been described as strangely 
"shiny" or thin, but not silky -- almost as if they have been cut 
from a new type of fabric.
     Their often mechanical behavior has caused them to be 
described by some as being like robots or androids (think back to 
the Dulce lab).
     A lot of descriptions of some of these "folks" are pretty 
bizarre. A businessman's family in Wildwood, New Jersey, was 
visited by an unusually large man whose pants legs hiked up when 
he sat down, revealing a green wire grafted onto his skin and 
running up his leg.
     There are other cases of MIB appearing on the other side of a 
wet, muddy field after a heavy rain, but having no mud whatever on 
their brightly shined shoes and in the bitter cold, out of 
nowhere, wearing only a thin coat. Their shoes and wallets all 
seem new and hardly broken in.
     They are not alone. They seem to have faceless conspirators 
in the nation's post offices and phone companies. Researchers and 
witnesses often report their mail going astray at an unusually 
high rate and being bothered by bizarre phone calls where they are 
spoken to by metallic, unhuman-sounding voices.
     Unusual noises on the phone, intensifying whenever UFOs are 
mentioned, and voices breaking in on conversations, have all led 
many people to suspect that their phones are being tapped.
     One can't discuss the MIB for long without mentioning the 
name of John A. Keel, an author who has written much about them. 
Keel has done more than any other writer to publicize this bizarre 
aspect of the UFO situation. Keel suggests that the UFO are part 
of the environment itself and come from another time-space 
continua; that most of the UFO phenomena is psychic and 
psychological rather than physical. Well, I personally would not 
define it that way, although those two components are certainly 
deeply involved in what's going on.
     The first noted appearance of the MIB was in 1947, at the 
scene of the Maury Island incident, where some debris was ejected 
from a disk, and subsequently recovered by officials, who loaded 
them on an Army bomber which crashed on takeoff.


     To illustrate a little how bizarre some of the incidents are 
regarding the MIB, I have assembled a short list of some of the 
more interesting factors in some cases:

          o  An ex-Air Force man is gassed and interrogated by MIB 
             after he has learned classified NASA secrets.
          o  Closeup photos of UFOs were seized from a teenager
             who is also directly threatened by MIB.
          o  MIB sighted in the lobby of the U.S. State Department
             leave a mysterious artifact.
          o  MIB pose as Air Force officers to silence witnesses.
          o  MIB tries to buy before-hours Coke and sings to birds
             in trees.
          o  MIB disintegrates a coin in a witness' hand and tells
             him that his heart will do the same if he talks.

****************************************************************


     Throughout all this information, I have neglected to mention 
some aspects of the psychology of the Greys. Dr. Paul Bennewitz, 
in his original report to the government entitled "Project Beta," 
goes into some detail, which I will now discuss:

          o  The alien, either through evolvement or because the
             humanoid types are "made," will exhibit tendencies
             for bad logic. They appear to have more frailties
             and weaknesses than the normal Homo Sapien.
          o  They are not to be trusted.
          o  Because of the aliens' apparent logic system, a key
             decision cannot be made without higher clearance.
             All are under control of what they call "The Keeper,"
             yet it would appear that even this is not the final
             authority. Delays as long as 12-15 hours can occur
             for a decision.
          o  Because of this apparent control, individual
             instantaneous decision-making by the alien is 
             limited. If the "plan" goes even slightly out of
             balance or context, they become confused. Faced with
             this, possibly, the humanoids would be the first to
             run.
          o  Psychologically their morale is near disintegration.
             There is pronounced dissension in the ranks -- even
             with the humanoids.
          o  Because of their own internal vulnerability mind-wise
             to each other, there is a basic lack of trust between
             them.
          o  They appear to be totally death-oriented, and because
             of this, absolutely death-fear oriented. This is a
             psychological advantage.
          o  The prime, and weakest area discovered, probed and
             tested is exactly what they have used, thinking it
             their key strength -- that being the manipulation of
             and control of the mind. Manipulated in reverse-
             psychology they face a situation where they have a 
             vulnerable, integrated weakness.
          o  They totally respect force.

****************************************************************


Grey Physiology and Anatomy

     The approximate height of most specimens is between 3.5 and 
4.5 feet. The head, by human standards, is large in comparison 
with the body. Facial features show a pair of eyes described as 
large, sunken or deeply set, far apart or distended more than the 
human, and slightly slanted as Oriental or Mongoloid. No ear lobes 
or apertures on the side of the head were seen. The nose is vague. 
One or tow holes have been mentioned. The mouth area is described 
as a small slit or fissure. In some cases there is no mouth at 
all. It appears not to function as a means for communication or 
for food. The neck area is described as being thin, in some 
instances not being visible at all because of the tightly-knit 
garment. Most observers describe these humanoids as being 
hairless. Some of the bodies recovered have a slight hair-patch 
atop the head. Others have what appears to be like a silver 
skullcap. There were no breathing attachments or communications 
devices. This suggests telepathy with higher intelligence. In one 
instance there was an opening in the right frontal lobe area, 
revealing a crystalline network. This network implies the 
development of a third brain.
     The arms are described as long and thin, reaching down to the 
knee section. The hangers each contain four fingers, with no 
thumbs. Three fingers are longer than the other. Some are very 
long. Some are very long. Others are very short. No description is 
available of the legs and feet. Some pathologists indicate that 
that section of the body was not developed as we would anticipate, 
showing that some of these beings were adapted to life in the 
water. There was a webbing effect between the fingers on most of 
the specimens.
     According to most observers, the skin is grey. Some claim it 
is beige, tan or pinkish-grey. No reproductive organs or 
capabilities were discovered. No phallus. No womb. Confirms 
cloning mentioned by other sources. The humanoids appear to be 
from a mold, sharing identical racial and biological 
characteristics. There is no blood as we know it, but there is a 
fluid which is greyish in color.

****************************************************************
 
     
     The "Taxonomy of Extra-Terrestrial Humanoids," another 
offering by George Andrews, yields some other observations:

          o  Working under the instructions of the humanoids
             from Rigel (the Greys), CIA and former Nazi 
             scientists have developed and deployed malignant
             strains of bacteria and viruses, including AIDS, in
             order to exterminate undesirable elements of the 
             human population.
          o  The Greys are almost entirely devoid of emotions,
             but can obtain a "high" by telepathically tuning in
             the different kinds of intense human emotion, such
             as ecstasy or agony. (Does that explain why UFOs
             have always been seen in regions of war and human
             conflict?)
          o  There are over 1,000 humans in the United States
             alone who are the offspring of intergalactic or
             extragalactic beings and terrestrial humans. (The
             son of an acquaintance of [deleted in original]
             is one.)
          o  Throughout recorded history, as well as during
             prehistoric times, there has been constant genetic
             manipulation of and interbreeding with humans in
             order to breed out the less evolved simian traits.
             The Nordic races have participated in this from the
             beginning, and we are as much a part of them as we
             might suppose.
          o  Greys have the ability to camouflage themselves as
             tall Blonds through mental energy projection. Blonds
             never project themselves as Greys. Some Blonds seen
             with the Greys are physically real, but are 
             prisoners of the Greys who have either paralyzed 
             them or have destroyed their ability to teleport
             through time and other dimensions. Note: A lot of
             the material obtained by George Andrews has as its
             source a Blond that is a time traveler that escaped
             the Grey takeover of their system.
          o  Both Blonds and Greys have the ability to
             disintegrate matter into energy and then
             reintegrate the energy back into matter. This
             ability allows them to pass through walls and to
             transport abductees out of their cars with the 
             doors still locked.
          o  The original Rigelians were the Blonds until they
             were invaded by the Greys, a parasitic race, who
             took over and interbred with them. The original
             Rigelians were the ones who seeded the earth. It
             is because of this common ancestry that terrestrial
             humanity is of such interest to both the Blonds and
             the Greys.
          o  Terrestrial human females can be impregnated either
             on board ship or while they sleep in their homes.
             Males need not be manifested in visible form for
             this to occur.
          o  The Blonds now habitate the Procyon system. The
             conflict between the Blonds and the Greys is in a
             state of temporary truce, although the conflict
             between the Rigelian and the Sirius system is being
             fought actively.
          o  The Blonds with speech abilities will respond
             violently if attacked or threatened, but the
             telepathic ones will respond peacefully.
          o  Blonds were sometimes mistaken for angels in
             earlier centuries. They do not seem to age, and
             consistently appear to be from 27 to 35 human years
             old.

****************************************************************


     Confused? Well, now you can see why the natural diversity of 
the way things are are hard to sort out for the average 
researcher. The probability that this information is true or 
partially true remains fairly high, based on analysis of what we 
know about abductions and general contact between humans and EBEs 
that has been documented.

****************************************************************


Real Esoterica -- Sirius and the MIB
 
     Let's regress for a moment back to the MIB. According to John 
Keel, the MIB often state that they are representatives of the 
"Nation of the Third Eye."
     Based on some of the info we have already researched, it is 
apparent that Sirius has been in contact with us for a long time. 
According to George Hunt Williamson (one of the early contactees) 
in his book "Other Tongues, Other Flesh," the earth allies of 
Sirius, i.e., the secret societies, use the Eye of Horus as an 
insignia. This symbol has also been seen on the MIB. Secret 
societies believe that there is a Great White Lodge on earth. They 
call it Shamballa -- and consider it to be the spiritual center of 
the world. Now, theosophists such as Alice Bailey say that the 
Great White Lodge is on Sirius. If the All-Seeing-Eye is a symbol 
of Sirius' earth-allies and the MIB wear that symbol, and if 
Shamballa represents the Great White Lodge on earth -- then the 
MIB are emissaries of Shamballa. Sirius and Shamballa are two 
sides of the same coin. This is verified in the book "The 
Undiscovered Country," by Stephen Jenkins. Jenkins was told by 
Buddhist priests that Shamballa was located in the constellation 
of Orion.
     The entrance to Shamballa on earth is usually placed in the 
trans-Himalayan region. Some assert it is in the heart of the Gobi 
Desert (where there have been allegations of crashed disks and 
bases). According to the explorer Nicholas Roerich, there are 
caves in the Himalayan foothills that have subterranean passages. 
In one of the these passages, there is a stone door that has never 
been opened, because the time for its opening has not yet arrived.
In 1930, Doreal founded the Brotherhood of the White Temple. He 
says that the entrance to Shamballa is far underground. he goes on 
to say that space bends around Shamballa, and that there is a warp 
which leads into another universe.

****************************************************************

 
     Let's get back to something we can have more of a direct 
handle on. Many times psychics have been called upon by 
investigative authorities to evaluate situations, and in many 
cases what they have contributed has been very helpful.
     This was done in the case of animal mutilations back in 1980 
by Peter Jordan, who engaged several psychics to render their 
impressions from photos and maps of mutilations and mutilation 
areas. What follows is a condensation of what was found during 
this exercise.


Name of Psychic: Ronald Mangravite

          o  This animal has been dead a few days.
          o  Some parts are decaying faster than others.
          o  There is an overload of electrolytes in the body
             possibly due to injection of a citrate.
          o  Something wrong with blood. Picking up higher
             portion of plasma which may be lymphatic fluid.
          o  Two men working on the animal. Very sharp surgical
             knives.
          o  Men dressed in black. Jumpsuits. Shiny black nylon.
          o  Winch line coming down from chopper.
          o  Men are skilled ex-military.
          o  Something is going to be done with the tissue.
          o  Flurometry connection. Spectrophotometers.
          o  Choppers are brown or grey.
          o  Underground implications.
          o  Experimentation with different analytical techniques.




Name of Psychic: Elisabeth Lerner

          o  Paramilitary forces.
          o  A serious invasion of American privacy.
          o  Non-American Indians part of secret project.
          o  The word "Annide."
          o  The word "Carmine" or "Karmine."
          o  The symbol "dk."
          o  A new wave of mutilations will strike near southwest
             New Mexico.
          o  The Hobart Company is involved in this. 
             (Refrigeration equipment?)
          o  Three huge, doughnut-shaped objects will be seen in
             conjunction with these new mutilations.
          o  Breakthrough in research.
          o  Muscle relaxant injections.
          o  Someone with the name "Empeda."
          o  This is a Mexican operation.
          o  Names "Kielman" and "Kelman."
          o  Institution with many Lincoln Continentals and
             Cadillacs.
          o  Laboratory underground.
          o  Lilly Pharmaceuticals.
          o  Roman numerals IVIII [sic].
          o  Name "Stephano."
          o  The number "1714."
          o  Last name "Audler."
          o  First name "Mase."
          o  Last name "Audli."
          o  Jet rocket labs nearby.
          o  Domes above the ground.
          o  Vehicle ID # MP 1936. Small jeeps.
          o  Last name "Plento."
          o  Initials "C.B.P." heads operation. Wears brown
             military shoes. Army.
          o  Number "1161."
          o  Around an oil field.
          o  Place where oil crosses in an "X" pattern.
          o  Chemical engineering connections.
          o  Mustard.
          o  Periscope device on bottom of craft. Chopper called
             "The Shark."
          o  Man with blond hair. English features. High forehead.
             Wears square ring. Insignia reads "C.B.P." Has
             something to do with ammunition. Colonel.
          

Name of Psychic: Nancy Fuchs

          o  Dusk scene. Men talking about some animal's throat.
             Something missing.
          o  Cylindrical object.
          o  Long thick object inserted into jugular vein.
          o  Powerful energy flow emanating from device used to
             kill cattle.
          o  Feeling of tremendous anger and hostility.
          o  Research implication. Minerals needed for research.
          o  Intimidation of rancher Gomez.
          o  Embryos.
          o  Thousands of samples needed for this breeding effect.
          o  Crossbreeding.
          o  Animal dies in seconds.
          o  Jolts of electricity through animal.
          o  Breeding and genetics involved.
          o  Army background.
          o  Liquid-filled shoes leave no prints.
          o  Marshall. Army. Cap with black rim and gold braid.
             Pompous. White-haired. Very influential. Walks into
             Pentagon whenever he pleases. Commission given 15-18
             years ago for mutilation project when he was 
             overseas. Grand Marshall. Friend of General
             MacArthur. Lives in Dakotas. Money invested. High-
             priority issue. Tall. Heavyset. Only 17 people know
             of this.
          o  Project with $2.5 million allocated early in game for
             breeding experimentation. Late 1960s through 
             Pentagon. More and more money invested every year.
          o  Land wanted. Want to destroy ranchers prime source
             of income.
          o  John Mitchell connected to this.
          o  Howard Hughes.
          o  Uranium connection.
          o  Picture complex. Faction-ridden.
          o  Interest in speeding up growth of cattle.
          o  Importance of pancreas.

****************************************************************


     Well, there you have that little presentation. I don't know 
what exactly to make of it, but there it is. Certainly a non-UFO 
implication here, however, it only relates to THREE mutilations. 
How about the other 10,000 -- most of which have the UFO 
connection? What did I tell you about a multi-level reality?

****************************************************************


     At this point, I will put some references and excerpts from 
some volumes that I believe are relevant to all the things we've 
been talking about. Where I feel it is applicable, I will comment 
on them.


"The Goblin Universe"

     (p222) The ability to materialize mental constructs is not 
unknown. Suppose one creates a field with the mind that is strong 
enough to attract supercharged particles. The particles are real 
but unstable in their assemblage since the stability depends on 
the intermediate mental component.

     (p223) Physical aspect of UFOs and other phenomena lie in the 
behavior of electromagnetic fields.

     (p124) If all UFO incidents were chance encounters, someone 
would have obtained a filmed record or a series of stills years 
ago. The only way that such episodes can be engineered so that 
they remain total mysteries is for the entities to have advance 
knowledge of any situation before it occurs.

     (p117, referencing John Keel) These entities labor to 
cultivate belief in various frames of reference, and then they 
create new manifestation which support those beliefs.

     (p120) Illness is common after close contact with some 
beings.

     (p122) Guy Underwood classified primary geomagnetic currents 
into three classes: water lines, aquastats, and track lines. Some 
magnetic signals appear as spirals, others are linear. Gnats and 
flies congregate above magnetic patterns.

****************************************************************

     
"Extra-Terrestrials Among Us"
     
     (p2-3) On several occasions after UFOs flew over missile 
sites, it was found that the targeting of the missiles had 
changed, and the warheads had to be replaced.

     (p3) On 22 June 1980 a UFO that was 10 miles in diameter was 
reported over the Kuwait oil fields.

     (p4) On July 30, 1985, a UFO over Mongolia that was 10 km in 
diameter was reported heading south. It was sighted by a Chinese 
jet and reported in the "Japan Times." The Unites States ignored 
this report.

     (p8) JANAP-146 specifies up to 10 years in prison and $10,000 
in fines for anyone in government service who makes unauthorized 
public statements about UFO phenomena. The British Official 
Secrets Act makes similar provisions.

     (p9) Many routes of UFOs take the form of an isosceles 
triangle.

     (p16) On September 14, 1978, a UFO as big as an ocean liner 
flew over Italy, and over Rome on the 15th and 16th.
     Comment: This was two weeks before Pope John Paul I was found 
dead under suspicious circumstances. He was killed between 
September 28-29. Autopsy was refused. It was rumored he intended 
to reveal the Fatima message of 1917.

     (p 20) UFOs dart around in daylight at speeds which cannot be 
seen.

     (p22) An individual having one CE experience usually has 
another.

     (p24) There is no basis to support psychiatric pathology for 
UFO witnesses.

     (p24) Dr. Brian T. Clifford (Pentagon) announces on October 
5, 1982, that contact between U.S. citizens and extraterrestrials 
on their vehicles is illegal. Title 14, Section 1211 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations (adopted July 16, 1969, before the first 
manned lunar landing) says that anyone guilty of this becomes a 
wanted criminal to be jailed for one year and fined $5,000. The 
NASA administrator is empowered to determine WITH OR WITHOUT A 
HEARING that a person has been "ET-exposed" and impose 
INDETERMINATE quarantine under armed guard, which cannot be broken 
even by court order.

     (p89) Mars has a history of transient phenomena.

     (p90) Temporary brilliant spots on Mars were reported by 
astronomers in 1890, 1892, 1900, 1911, 1924, 1937, 1952, 1954, 
1967, and 1971. The distribution was non-random. Intensely dark 
spots, transient in nature, were reported on Mars in 1925, 1952, 
and 1954.

     (p93) About 33% of abductees are able to remember the 
experiences without hypnotic regression. 66% of the abductees were 
alone when abducted.

     (p94) Some abductees did not return but vanished permanently 
or were found dead after a UFO encounter.

     (p25) Records of the 687 B.C. battle between the Assyrians 
and the Hebrews indicate that "a blast from heaven" reduced the 
bodies of 185,000 Assyrians to ashes but left their clothes 
intact.

     (p145) Morris K. Jessup died under mysterious circumstances 
after a copy of his book "Case for the UFO" was sent to the Chief 
of the Office of Naval Research (ONR) in Washington.

     (p146 -- comments from "Case for the UFO")

          o  Falls from the sky of flesh, blood, reptiles, etc.,
             were due to either spoiled food or cleaning of
             holding tanks.
          o  Comments describe TWO different space races who share
             the planet with us without our knowledge. They are 
             not visitors -- they have been here longer than we
             have. They feel more at ease in the ocean.
          o  The little men were almost wiped out by a serpent
             race identified only as the "S-men." S-men are
             ravenous for red meat, extremely materialistic, and
             are greedy for power. Comment: Sounds like the Deros
             of Shavarian fame.

     (p147) Thanks to Allen Dulles in partnership with Reinhard 
Gehlen, the Gestapo was transplanted intact into the United States 
system as the CIA, without the knowledge or consent of American 
citizens. Comment: Remember Reagan placing wreaths on graves of SS 
stormtroopers at the 40th anniversary of WWII? Roots of that 
symbolic gesture go deep.

     (p147) Reference the Intelligence Identity Protection Act of 
1981: Freedom to speak about anything but the CIA. Some claim that 
concentration camps have already been built. Activation was sealed 
by Executive Order Rex 84. The next REX exercise in in 1988.

     (p148) Jessup: "I believe that space structures of 5-10 miles 
in diameter are sufficiently large to produce intelligently 
directed storms."

     (p150) Alleged alien comment in annotated edition of "Case 
for the UFO": "Men frozen helpless make good prey."

     (p151) Dr. James E. McDonald thought that the Federal Power 
Commission was evading the evidence concerning UFO involvement in 
the total power failure that paralyzed New York on July 13, 1965, 
and dared to say so in front of a Congressional committee.

     (p152) On June 13, 1971, James E. McDonald was found dead 
under mysterious circumstances, shot through the head with a 
pistol by his side.

     (p153) Murder disguised as suicide is one of the well-known 
specialties of the CIA.

     (p153) There is ample documentation suggesting that among the 
highest-priority covert operations of the CIA are those supplying 
heroin to the Mafia. The "war on drugs" is in fact a war on the 
independent drug dealer who constitutes a threat to the Mafia 
monopoly. Comment: Additional ways to subdue the population or 
eliminate undesirables?

     (p156) Karen Silkwood's murder disguised as auto accident.
     
     (p159) George Adamski, contactee in the 1950s had a special 
government passport. Possible CIA disinformation agent.

     (p162) Although mutilations were reported in England as early 
as 1904-1905, ("Winter of Weirdness"), the large-scale operations 
there began in 1973.

     (p163) A rancher and his sons saw a UFO as big as a hotel 
which was accompanied by four smaller ones. Rectangular in shape, 
300-400 feet long, and 60 feet high. A helicopter approached it 
and turned into a small UFO.

     (p163) Phantom cars appear on roads, follow people, and 
disappear.

     (p163) A rancher and his wife looked at a UFO 5/8 of a mile 
away and reported that two appendages emerged from the egg-shaped 
object.

     (p164) Apparently UFOs have the capability of invisibility.

     (p164) Materialization of a Bigfoot before a witness.

     (p164) Dematerialization of Bigfoot before witness who shot 
it with a 16-gauge shotgun at point-blank range into its stomach.

     (p166) On August 21, 1975, a sheriff was chasing an unmarked 
helicopter in his plane in southwestern Nebraska at 0430 when 
the lights on the helicopter went out, and the only thing seem on 
the ground was a missile silo.

     (p166) About the time mutilations began in earnest (1973 
wave), a new branch of science was beginning to develop -- 
biogeochemistry -- analysis of mineral and oil deposits by 
analysis of tissues of herbivorous animals.

     (p168) An elderly lady in Arkansas in 1979 injured herself 
and was cut during a fall. The injuries were repaired by two 
aliens, who gave her a piece of metal with pyramids and six-
pointed stars on it. The aliens told her they "consumed juice," 
but not the kind consumed by humans. Six weeks later, she was out 
looking for her dog and spotted a horse lying on its side, 
unconscious.
     Two men in white, dressed like surgeons, were at work on the 
horse. There were two Air Force helicopters parked in the 
clearing, two men in Air Force uniforms, and the same two aliens 
who had helped her after her fall. The lady was spotted by the 
group and she was overtaken by a helicopter which flashed a blue 
light on her which burned her clothing. Help arrived as the 
helicopter retreated, and she was brought to the local hospital. 
People having nothing to do with the hospital staff began turning 
up to question her. After release she was harassed at all hours by 
strangers who insisted on questioning her, repeating the same 
questions over and over again. The couple moved to a different 
state, only to have it start all over again. MUFON began 
investigating this case, but as of 1986 had not yet made public 
its conclusions. Research into the case began in 1980.

     (p171) Tissue samples taken from a carcass revealed the 
presence of chlorpromazine, a tranquilizer.

     (p171 comment by Gabe Valdez) "Whoever is doing these 
mutilations are highly organized and have a lot of resources."

     (p172) The theory of biogeochemical basis for the mutilations 
fails to account for the fact that mutilations are worldwide.

     (p174) When FBI agent Rommel was given $50K to investigate 
the mutilations in one district in New Mexico, all mutilations in 
that district stopped during the year.

     (p177) The Condon Report, Rommel Report, and the Warren 
Report all have a resemblance.

     (p177) The human tendency to avoid facing unpleasant facts 
may allow parasitic entities to "farm us."

     (p178) A seven-year-old heifer was found whose unborn calf 
had been removed with breaking the placental bag.

     (p181) U.S. Senate lied to by Pentagon in 1968 during Senate 
hearings on UFOs.

     (p200) In an anonymous letter to a Denver paper on April 8, 
1983, it was told that the mutilations are being done by a secret 
government group called Delta. Animal parts are used to test 
effects of germ warfare and poison (cyanide and dioxin) they are 
testing on civilians in America. Testing is associated with black 
helicopters. Helicopters are also used to ferry heroin and 
cocaine. Delta bases said to be all underground on Indian 
Reservations. HQ for operations and where a lot of choppers are 
based in 28 miles east of Albuquerque on I-40, then 14 miles north 
on a dirt road into the Laguna Indian Reservation. Comment: 
Disinformation attempt?

     (p204, UPI story, February 2, 1984) Dr. James Womack at
Texas A&M University announced his discovery that humans share 
"perfect match" chromosomes with cattle. The perfect match is with 
portions of the 21st chromosome pair, a strand known to carry 
characteristics of Mongolism or Down's Syndrome, associated with 
mental retardation. Dr. Womack says, "We must have more in common 
than previously believed."

     (p205, 1984 letter) A recent arrival on the nutritional scene 
is protomorphogens, or glandulars -- ground up glands of cattle. If 
one takes these for a year you get "hooked" on them. Your own 
glands stop producing hormones.
     Many EBEs have no alimentary canals and no glands.
     In some cancer clinics, these glandulars are used to treat 
cancer victims, and so are glands from human fetuses.

     (p206) What is happening with the mutilations would make 
sense in human terms if the location on which the cattle grazed 
was important, or the parts taken could be used geobiologically 
(which they aren't).

     (p208) UFOs are: Extraterrestrial, ultraterrestrial, 
interdimensional, and time travelers.

     (p208) Some UFOs behave as if the UFO itself was a living 
organism. Comment: Refer to Trevor James Constable's book "Sky 
Creatures," for a discussion of biological aeroforms, of "Flying 
Saucers at Etibi-Raa," by Wendell Stevens for a discussion of just 
that subject.

     (p208) Entities with cyborg-like traits, having both 
mechanical and biological features, turn up quite frequently in 
reports.

     (p208) It is odd that among the viruses there are some that 
look like UFOs, like T. Bacteriophage. Do some UFO have the 
ability to operate in the micro-dimension of viruses? Comment: In 
the discipline of Yoga is noted the ability to become large or 
small.

     (p209) Anyone with more access to even one more dimension 
than we have access to could evade our most carefully planned 
investigations indefinitely.

     
     (p210) Modern brain capacity: 1300cc
            Cro-magnon man: 1400cc
            Baskop man (megroid [sic] race): 1800cc

            The last two appeared quite suddenly.
     
     (p210) Theory of Max H. Flindt attributes paradoxically rapid 
development of the human brain to interbreeding between primitive 
humanity and ETs.
     According to Flindt, schizophrenia is caused by subconscious 
racial memory of the ET branch of the family tree, longing for 
home. Considerable differences between glandular and nervous 
systems between primitive humans and ETs would provide a basis for 
traumatic tension associated with regressed memory.

     (p210) Our civilization has forgotten the existence of other 
intelligent beings in the universe.

     (p211) The idea that Homo Sapiens is unique is becoming no 
longer tenable.

****************************************************************


Digitized by, and available from, IllumiNet BBS 4043771141
<0>
