InterMail Software Inc.                  InterMail Info - Jun 29 1994
=====================================================================
Copyright 1992-1994 InterMail Software Inc. All rights reserved.

This leaflet is a short description of InterMail. Please see
README.1ST for more details.


What is InterMail?
------------------
InterMail is a computer software for electronic mail and automatic
file transfers via modem. InterMail can be used both alone and with a
BBS (Bulletin Board System). InterMail is the kind of software often
referred to as a "front-end mailer". InterMail can easily communicate
with BBSes and nodes within FidoNet and other Fido Technology based
networks, no matter which type of computer or software they use.


Why InterMail?
--------------
InterMail lets you transfer all types of files much more easily and
cheaper than with any ordinary communications program. Everything is
taken care of automatically. InterMail takes all the hassle out of
file transfers. You just tell it the destination and which files to
send, InterMail takes care of the rest. It will keep dialing a busy
number until it gets through, establish a connection with the correct
settings, identify itself, send the proper password, and then send or
receive files with the highest possible security. It will even call
up and try again if line conditions should be so adverse that the
modems lose the connection. If the connection is lost during a file
transfer, InterMail will dial again and when a session is established
it will continue from where it was interrupted. It will not start the
file transfer from the beginning.


InterMail and a BBS
-------------------
InterMail is often used in front of a BBS. You can recognize it, if
you call with a terminal program and find this:

      InterMail 2.28
      Press ESC twice for ......

InterMail takes care of the modem, answers incoming calls and starts
the BBS software. When the caller quits from the BBS software,
InterMail will start again, ready for the next caller. If you are
running a BBS and want to connect it to FidoNet or any other
email-net, you may use InterMail for this purpose. Keep your old
setup and just add InterMail.


InterMail without a BBS
-----------------------
InterMail works very well even without any BBS software. When run as
a "Mail Only System" only another mailer like InterMail is allowed to
call in. A human calling with a terminal program may be shown this:

      InterMail 2.28
      Mail-only system. Please hang up.

One reason for not having a BBS program set up behind InterMail, is
to get more time available for automatic file transfers.


The Building Blocks
===================
InterMail comprises several separate programs which work together by
sharing common databases.


The Mailer
----------
The Mailer is the most important part. It is responsible for the
modem and the actual transmission. It answers all incoming calls and
dials all outgoing calls. The Mailer is controlled by mail events,
user-defined periods of the day and night. Each event may be
programmed to send all, or some, of the waiting mail. Events may also
make InterMail call (poll) another InterMail and pick up waiting
mail. Events may even be used to exit from the Mailer to run other
programs, for example a daily system maintenance.

InterMail may use several modems and phone lines simultaneously. This
is called multi-line. Each modem is governed by one Mailer. To be
able to run several Mailers, you need the ability to run several
DOS-tasks at the same time. This is possible under Windows 3.x, OS/2,
DESQview or in a LAN (Local Area Network) environment.

The Mailer picks the right messages to send, packs them in bundles
and puts them in a queue. For each bundle of mail, the correct
telephone number is fetched from the nodelist. A check is made to see
if there are any special rules governing how the bundle should be
sent (routing), such as via another mailer (hub/host) or direct.
Finally, the Mailer checks the queue, chooses a bundle, dials the
number, makes contact and transfers the mail. If it's busy it chooses
another bundle and dials another number. The Mailer produces a log
file and history files, allowing you to keep track of what is
happening on your system, and what calls are made where and at what
cost.

InterMail has its own script language which allows you to closely
define call routines, and log-on procedures. This makes it possible
to automatically contact database hosts and pick up information, even
if the database host is not directly compatible with InterMail.

The transfer window lets you know how much time is left with just a
quick look at the graph to the right.
ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ InterMail 2.25 - Node 1:369/102            Wen 30 Jun 93 12:46 PM ³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³ + Using internal SIO driver, UART=16550A         ³      BUSY      ³
³   Running under DESQview 2.42                    ³       OK       ³
³   Mail SÕÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍµ Receiving ÆÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¸  ³
³   Checki³ The InterZone Cafe                    InterMail 2.23 ³  ³
³   Initia³ Pembroke Pines FL                           1:369/35 ³  ³
³   WaitinÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄ´  ³
³ + Event ³ Protocol :  Zmodem/32         Speed : 16800      ³ ° ³  ³
³   Checki³ File     :  NODELIST.ZIP      Time  :  3:27      ³ ° ³  ³
³   Using:³                               Left  :  1:93      Ã Û ´  ³
³ - Prepar³ Size     :  663729            Cps   :  2116      ³ Û ³  ³
³   1:369/³ Bytes    :  416768 (8192)     Eff % :   126      ³ Û ³  ³
³ + CallinÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄ´32³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ³                                                      ³ÄÄ´
³ From: Ke³ Synchronizing with sender                            ³  ³
³       6-³ Receiving file                                       ³  ³
³ To  : MiÔÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¾a ³
³       6-22-93 9:35p               V„xj”, Sverige ³                ³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³                         Press F10 for menu                        ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


The Editor
----------
The Editor is a word processor with extra features to facilitate the
management of messages. You can create, edit and reply to messages.
Passwords limit a user to only access his or her own private
messages. This makes it possible for several users to share one
mailer on a singel PC or via a LAN. The Message base can be divided
into different areas (folders), with each folder storing messages for
a certain topic or echomail conference. See IEINFO.DOC.
ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ 1:369/102  3:41p                                  Net mail folder ³
³[5]     Fri 22 Jan 93  2:45p                              Cost:  0 ³
³By: Patrik Bertilsson, InterMail Tech Support (369/102)            ³
³To: Peter Stewart, InterZone Software (369/35)                     ³
³Re: D:\INTRMAIL.ZIP                                                ³
³St: Pvt  File  Kill  Direct                                        ³
³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ³
³Hi Peter                                                           ³
³                                                                   ³
³ > Next time, could you please run this through a spell checker    ³
³ > before submitting it for my perusal?  ;-)                       ³
³                                                                   ³
³And here I thought I was being creative with my spelling!          ³
³                                                                   ³
³TTYL - Patrik                                                      ³
³                                                                   ³
³                                                                   ³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³ Ctrl-Z Save  F10 Menu ³      Line: 14    Col: 2                   ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÁÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


IMSend
------
IMSend is a robot message maker that lets you create messages
automatically from batch files or other programs. It is a very
powerful tool if you need to setup automatic file transfers. This
sample creates a message similar to the one above:

  C:\>imsend mf d:\intrmail.zip 1:369/35 /t=MsgBody.txt /s=pfkd

There is also a DLL version for windows available. You may run
InterMail in a background DOS-box and let your own windows program
"talk" with InterMail via IMSEND.DLL. Price on request.


The Nodelist Manager
--------------------
Names and telephone numbers are stored in the nodelist. The Nodelist
Manager helps you maintain and edit your own nodelist. You may export
parts of the nodelist and distribute them to other nodes in your own
network.
ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ InterMail 2.24; Nodelist manager                                  ³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÕÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍµ Flags ÆÍ¸ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³              ³ CM  : 24 hour Mail   ş ³                           ³
³ Node number: ³ MO  : Mail Only        ³        Status  :          ³
³              ³ XX  : File requests  ş ³                           ³
³ Node name  : ³ HST : USR HST        ş ³        Cost    : 0        ³
³ Location   : ³ H96 : Hayes V9600      ³                           ³
³ Phone no   : ³ PEP : TeleBit          ³        Max baud: 9600     ³
³              ³ MAX : Microcom AX/96   ³                           ³
³ Routing    : ³ CSP : CompuCom         ³        Group   :          ³
³              ³ ZYX : Zyxel            ³                           ³
³ Flags      : ³ V29 : V.29             ³                           ³
³              ³ V32 : V.32           ş ³                           ³
³ Sysop      : ³ V33 : V.33             ³                           ³
³              ³ V34 : V.34             ³                           ³
³              ³ V42 : V.42           ş ³                           ³
³              ³ V32b: V.32bis        ş ³                           ³
³              ³ V42b: V.42bis        ş ³                           ³
³              ³ H14 : HST 14400        ³                           ³
ÃÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÂ ³ H16 : HST 16800      ş ³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄÂÄÄÄÄÄÄ´
³     ³      ³ ÔÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¾Prev. ³Next  ³      ³Exit  ³
³     ³      ³      ³      ³      ³     ³field ³field ³      ³/Save ³
ÀF1ÄÄÄÁF2ÄÄÄÄÁF3ÄÄÄÄÁF4ÄÄÄÄÁF5ÄÄÄÄÁF6ÄÄÄÁF7ÄÄÄÄÁF8ÄÄÄÄÁF9ÄÄÄÄÁF10ÄÄÄÙ


The IMSetup program
-------------------
Nearly all settings may be changed from this program. The structured
pull-down menus make it quick and easy to find just the area you are
looking for. The short text line at the bottom gives you extra
on-line help.
ÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿
³ Exit  Global  Mailer  Editor  Terminal  Modem   Printer   Manager ³
³ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÚÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ¿ÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ³
³±±±±±±±³ Mail Server ³±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±³
³±ÉÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ Filenames and paths »±±³
³±º System    C:\IM\SYSTEM\                                      º±±³
³±º Netmail   C:\IM\MAIL\                                        º±±³
³±º Files     C:\IM\FILES\                                       º±±³
³±º Sec Files C:\IM\SECURE\                                      º±±³
³±º*Packets   C:\IM\PACKETS\                                     º±±³
³±º*Log file  C:\IM\IM.LOG                                       º±±³
³±º Banner    C:\IM\SYSTEM\WELCOME.TXT                           º±±³
³±º Nodelist  C:\IM\NODELIST\                                    º±±³
³±º In-event  C:\IM\SYSTEM\MAILONLY.TXT                          º±±³
³±º Swapping  C:\IM\                                             º±±³
³±º Semaphore C:\IM\SEMA\                                        º±±³
³±º                                                              º±±³
³±º * = Must be unique for each Mail Server                      º±±³
³±ÈÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍÍ¼±±³
³±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±±³
³ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ´ Mail server: 01 ÃÄ³
³ Where InterMail's system files are located                        ³
ÀÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÙ


The Terminal Emulator
---------------------
The Terminal Emulator allows you to communicate with other systems
such as database hosts and bulletin boards. It provides several
terminal emulations: VT100, VT52, ANSI (with Avatar/0) and TTY. The
Terminal emulator has no role in the exchange of mail and is merely
included as an extra convenience for the user. However, such
convenience includes power script language, automatic Zmodem
downloads, screen capture and other useful abilities.


The Manual
----------
A brief description of the contents of the manual with number of
pages per chapter.

A. Table of Contents                       8

B. General Section
This section gives you instructions on how to install the program on
your computer and then a short presentation of the InterMail system.

  1. Introduction                           4
  2. Installation                           2
  3. Getting Started                        7
  4. How to Write and Send a Message        4
  5. How to Send and Receive Files          6
  6. General Overview                      12
  7. Planning Your System                   6

C. Tutorial Section
This section contains information on all InterMail features which are
relevant to the normal user.

  8. The Editor                            72
  9. The Mailer                            40
 10. The Terminal Emulator                 26

D. Reference Section
This section describes in depth how to configure your system.

 11. The IMSetup Program                   52
 12. Events                                17
 13. Folders                               12
 14. Security                              16
 15. Routing                               22
 16. Nodelist                              20
 17. Script Language                       18
 18. Serial Port                           12
 19. Miscellaneous                         36

E. Appendices
Information that may not be immediately necessary, but sometimes can
be useful.

  A. Error Messages                         6
  B. Errorlevels                            2
  C. Input fields                           3
  D. Glossary                               8
  E. File information                       6

F. Index                                    7


How can I use InterMail?
========================
The main idea behind InterMail is that it can be used as an automated
messaging and mailing system for companies, both large and small,
national and multinational or individuals. It can be used internally
within a company, or to link up companies, consultants,
subcontractors, and clients both in the USA and overseas.

As a final link, you may install InterMail on your computer at home
and send files and messages between home and work. No more time
consuming last minute rushes to see that you get the right diskettes
and files home with you! The Server function even allows you, to a
limited extent and with password security checks, to control a remote
system by sending DOS commands or running certain programs.


Receiving Files
---------------
To receive files with InterMail couldn't be easier. The only thing
you have to do is to make sure that the Mailer program is running and
ready to answer incoming calls on the modem. InterMail will take care
of the rest and place the received files in the directory you've
specified for incoming files.


Requesting a File
-----------------
Requesting files is similar to sending file attaches, the main
differences being the message status of File request. You just
specify the file you wish to request from the other system instead of
a file you wish to send.


Events
------
The term events refers to the different times of the day and night
when InterMail performs various tasks. The Mailer program is the part
of InterMail that is primarily affected by events. The events decide
which messages are qualified for sending and how they should be
sent.

The event based way of governing the activities of the Mailer makes
it immensely flexible. Events may be set up in innumerable ways to
suit the needs of the individual organization, from the most simple,
where all messages are always qualified to be sent, 24 hours a day,
to complex schemes where messages are sent - or held back - in
different ways for every hour of the day.


Routing
-------
In many cases it may not be desirable or possible to send a message
directly to the addressee. Nodes in a net may not be available for
incoming calls and use a central (host) InterMail as a "post office"
for all their mail. It may often be more cost effective to send a
large number of messages for different systems in a single call to a
network host. When mail is sent via another system instead of direct,
it is called routing. InterMail supports routing in many different
ways.


User password
-------------
It is possible to severely restrict access to InterMail, by setting
up password protection for various features. Some features are
protected by the password for the individual user, others are
protected by a common access password.


Session passwords
-----------------
If a session password has been installed for a system, that system
will not be able to pick up its mail without presenting the correct
password. If mail from unprotected systems is allowed, it will be
able to call in with another alias and deliver mail, but won't be
able to pick up anything.


File request security
---------------------
No file may be requested from a system, unless it is placed in a
directory that is explicitly listed as requestable, or has been
listed under a "magic" filename. No other parts of your system are in
any way available to a caller.

Files may be password protected one by one or even on a directory
wide basis. Unless the proper password is sent for each file
specification, the caller will only get a message back saying that
the files is missing or there has been a password error.



Trademarks
----------
All products by InterZone Software, Inc. are trademarks or registered
trademarks of InterZone Software, Inc. All products by InterMail
Sales, Inc. are trademarks or registered trademarks of InterMail
Sales, Inc. Other brand and product names are trademarks or
registered trademarks of their respective holders.


If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us.

  InterMail Software Inc.         Voice   1-305-436-1587
  10620 Washington Street #101      Fax   1-305-436-5587
  Hollywood, FL 33025-3552          BBS   1-305-436-1884
  USA                              Fido   1:369/102
                           InterMailNet   211:211/0
