VrACK Release 1.0á By: Sir Joust for: PH/ARM of SC714.


Description:

VrACK is a Voice Mail Box Hacker. The Beta release is a Beta Release and not
everything is included or cosmetically KOSHER. The Problem I have is that Im
trying to write or update several phucking programs/projects at the same time.
This is my second project which is not and never will be finished (no program
is ever finished). The First is {BeG} WWIV, and third is now a phucking virus
Im trying to write. Now, VrACK operates on a basic concept that no 2 mail box
systems are the same. VrACK employs four user definable variables known as
"CODE", "MAIL"box, "__A", and "___B". There is NO difference between the four,
and they might have all been called "1", "2", "3", and "4". Now you can set the
settings for these variables to whatever you like. You regulate the actual
length in characters of the variable, at which number it starts, the incriment
value, and in the next version the type, which will allow you, to have the
computer randomly generate numbers, or have the variable come from a file. so u
could have like a file that has this in it:

DOG
CAT
SHIT
FUCK

and the likes and the program would convert these strings into numbers as on a
dial pad of your phone, and then have that number placed in the appropriate
variable.

Now, the actual order of these variables and how they are dialed through the
phone is determined by a rather primitive script language which will be
described further in this doc file. You will do shit without reading that
section.

Configuration:

VMBCFG.EXE is the configuration program, that sets all the variable starting
points, increment values, telephone numbers, com port addresses and the sort, I
will not go deeper into this cuz VMBCFG is a very primitive program, that is
just there cuz i didn't have time to write a descent CONFIG program. 

Script commands:

In the Configuration you will be asked to enter the VMB script, this is a
description of the available commands. [NOTE: Everything must be in CAPS]

|		This will send a carrige return to the modem.

{n}		This will pause for n number of seconds.

[InI		This will pause for n number of secconds but at the same time
		you will have the option of <space> initializing the next set
		of variables (code was bad), <C> code good-should be used if
		the attempt was successfull, <Q> quit, will save the current
		variables for trying at a later time and then quits, <A> again,
		this should be used if something went wrong and you want to try
		again with the same variable values. If the time runs out, the 
		effect will be that of pressing <space>.

[S		Save current instruction pointer position.

[R		Restore (goto) the instruction pointer position previously 
		saved with [S.

[Xn		Restore (goto) the instruction pointer position previously
		saved with [S n number of times and then continue with the 
		rest of the program. [Note: n can only be 1 digit long]
		
[B		Goes to the beginning of the program.

[H		Hangs up the modem.

[P		Dials the Phone Number of the VMB.

[C		Dials the "CODE" Variable.

[N		Dials the "MAIL" Variable.

[A		Dials the "___A" Variable.

[B		Dials the "___B" Variable.

[D		Sends ATDT to the modem.

[END of ref]

Antything else you put in will be sent to the modem.

NOTE!: When you issue a command that dials anything like a variable or phone
number it will take a few seconds for the modem to actually dial it, when for
instance you put in "[C" the program will send this to the modem
"ATDTcodevar;<CR>" then it will delay for half a second. The half a second
delay will ensure that the OK prompt apears before another command is issued,
however!, 1/2 a second is not enough to dial lets say six digits, and if you
issue another command that dials something directly after it it will stop the
dialing before its completed. I hope ure getting this. if for instance u are
dialing the '#' key the "MAIL" and then the code variable, do something like
this, "[D#;|[N{2}[C{2}". Now the the [D will send atdt, then the paund sign,
the semicolen pops up the OK prompt before the modem hangs up(its like
necessary). [N dials the "MAIL" varaiable, waits 2 seconds ({2}) for dialing to
finish, [C dials the "CODE" variable, so on.. so on.. tralal.


