History of The Internet's Anarchist Cookbook

By: Zero

11-18-2001

The Jolly Roger, Exodus, RFlagg, we've heard them all.. The Anarchist
Cookbook is by far one of the most interesting books available on the
internet today. It is also one of the most lied about books on the
internet today.

I am going to try and Cypher out what the Anarchist Cookbook is, and what
has happened to it since it's release on the Internet.

Keep in mind that this is a text document dealing with the Internet
version of the Anarchist Cookbook, not the actual thing.

The Actual Anarchist Cookbook was writen by William Powell Somewhere
around 1971. It has almost nothing to do with the Internet version. Exept
for a few recipes and the name.. But I don't exactly care about that... I
havn't even read the Actual Cookbook. For those of you that hate the
Anarchist Cookbook because of it's waste of time...Then good for
you...That Book is truly a waste of typing space. For those of you that
think The Anarchist Cookbook is something good...Please shut the hell
up....You have no idea what your talking about. I was around when the
Internet Version came out...Besides, you won't have any fingers left if
you use that dumb ass book. Read something like "the poor man's james
bond", or "smart bombs".

This File is just for the History of the Anarchist Cookbook. And to clear
up a few things that people say about it.

Known Cookbooks

BHU's Cookbook (aka: Pyrotechnics Cookbook)
The Anarchist Cookbook 1.0
The Anarchist Cookbook 2.0
The Anarchist Cookbook III
The Anarchist Cookbook 4.14
The Anarchist Cookbook V
The Anarchist Cookbook 666
The Anarchist Cookbook 2000

BHU's Cookbook is the First Version of The Anarchist Cookbook to ever come
out on the Internet.  It was a pretty big blow to the BBS community...And
A very interesting thing to some.....THIS IS WHERE THE WHOLE PROBLEM
STARTED... It couldn't have been more than two months later, I saw The
Anarchist Cookbook 1.0. I decided to look at it, and it is the EXACT same
thing as the BHU's Cookbook, exept it has "The Anarchist Cookbook" Labled
to it. About 4 Months Later, I see the Anarchist Cookbook 2.0 on the BBS.
Interesting..."The Jolly Roger" now took credit for it, and added a bunch
of files to it. Now about a year later, I see The Anarchist Cookbook III
come out, still "The Jolly Roger" Takes Credit. and there is an amazing
amount of new files added to it. It is now HUGE. A While Later I See
Version 4.14 come out. Very Interested in the new version, I look.. I't is
amazing, very very large. But this Time, this guy named Exodus is taking
credit for the whole thing. A while later The Anarchist Cookbook V comes
out...This is where the book get's pissingly anoying. This is the EXACT
same book as Verion 4.14, exept it is organized into 10 or 11 different
catigories. Then Comes The Anarchist Cookbook 666. The Same Exact Thing
exept it is in .txt format (what your reading right now). Then Comes The
Anarchist Cookbook 2000...This IS THE EXACT SAME THING AS BEFORE! exept it
is in version 4.14 format, and it comes in .doc format (Window's Microsoft
Word). I now hear that version 2002 is coming out...I'm not looking
forward to it.

What Probably Happened

I Believe a kid wrote BHU's Cookbook. It contains what a normal mischief
making teenager would write for some harmless Fun. He posted it on BBS,
and boom, everybody loves it. Then someone had the Anarchist Cookbook (THE
ACTUAL BOOK), and said hey let's rename it, and put it up on BBS again.
Fair Enough. Then Some 19 year old Got a hold of it, added onto it, Took
credit for the hole thing, and put it on the internet/bbs. He got some
heavy Internet/BBS fame from it to. Then He decides to blow it up. He
spends the rest of his time adding onto it, to make it appauling. He posts
it on the Internet/BBS. And then decides to just quit. Then Some Skwormy
little shit gets a hold of it, and Add's A nice pile of files to it, and
then takes Credit For the ENTIRE thing.  After that, people are really
starting to catch on. This asshole RFlagg takes it and Organizes it, and
says it's all new....AND HE TAKES CREDIT FOR IT! Then Some kid probably,
takes it at his only chance at getting the name he wants, and puts it in
txt format. And Calls it version 666.

Now the Businesses are moving in.. They Take it, Make it look neat, and
Call version 4.14, The Anarchist Cookbook 2000.

That is the closest you will ever get to finding out the history of that
book.

There has been rumor that the FBI and the CIA or the GOVERNMENT sabatoged
the Anarchist Cookbook.  This Rumor is Not True. This Is a rumor about the
Actual book that you can not find on the Internet. The Actual Book Was not
Sabatoged Either!I have a Reliable source that tells me The Anarchist
Cookbook Written By William Powell has remained the same ever since the
Release back in the 70's...He has a new copy, and the first copy. And They
Both match perfectly.

There has been rumor that the ultimate anarchist cookbook can not be found
anywhere because the government banned it. This is True and False. No you
can not find the ultimate anarchist cookbook anywhere. BECAUSE IT NEVER
EXISTED. Therefor, the government never could have banned it.

That is the extent of this History file. If you have questions about the
subject, then E-mail me

zerotextspy@yahoo.com
