Description: Make Airplane rides fun with this text file!  Part of the 
Sheer Black compilation.

Want to make those 3 hour airplane flights fun?  Read this and it will 
happen!

1)  Put something in the middle of the ail [such as an OPENED box of 
candy].  Whenever you hit turbulence or when the plane is landing, 
everything will spill out and fall down the ail.

2)  Go to the bathroom and leave the lock on the door so it says 
"vacant".  Now no one will be able to go in their.

3)  If your next to someone and they are sleeping, press their service 
button and when they ask you , "What's the problem?" say that they 
pressed it.  Then keep doing this and they will get pissed off.

4)  Okay now this one here is the grand finale.  If your on a plane 
where you can listen to music by using the provided headphones, this 
one is for you.  There are two holes located in your armrest, one for 
the head phones and one right next to it.  Ask to borrow your 
passengers headphones and stick the end part of both head phones [the 
part that you have to plug-in in order to listen to music] into both 
holes at the same time.  Press really hard and the speaker should pop 
[don't worry, it won't make any loud noise].  Whats the point of this?  
Now the music plays out the actual speaker instead of your headphones.  
Put it on a really gay station [like a station for kids] and turn the 
volume all the way up.  Try to do this to your neighbors during the 
flight if they happen to fall asleep.  At the end of the flight when 
everyone is getting to get off, he plane's engine will be turned off so 
your music will be heard clearly.  This will attract A LOT of heads.


       - | W R I T T E N . B Y | -
- = | S H E E R . B L A C K | = - 