+========================================+
|The Big Book of modern Mischeif by hakka|
+========================================+

Having a good time when causing mischief can be fun but getting caught can 
be real pain in the ass. This file contains information about the different 
games you can play and how to not get caught when running from the cops or 
by getting chased by the average person. You should always be PREPARED to 
face the consiquences when causing mischief!!

All people know that its best to cause mischief at night time so you cant 
get seen easy so when your out with 2-10 people make sure they wear dark 
clothes and make sure your clothes dont make to much noise. It is better to 
go out in big groups because, would you rather get caught on your own or 
with somebody else?

The best things to have with you are:

Eggs - Everybodys favorate.
Wet toilet roll - Sticks to most things when thrown hard.
Bricks - for smashing things.
Old plasic lighters - explode on impact, best for throwing at windows.
Stones - Come in all shapes and sizes, good for windows.
Pelet, BB and Dart guns - i think you know.
String - Good for playing Tommy Knockers.
You can still have some fun with non of these items but i think these are 
the best when causing trouble.

Funny games

People have other names for them.

Tommy Knockers

Get about 2 -5 meters of string and attach it to a door knocker go and hide 
some where with the string still in your hands and when your in a good 
hiding place pull the string. The string will bang on the door knocker, then 
the house keeper will come to the door thinking somebodys there, keep 
repeating this time and time again untill the house keeper calls the cops 
then RUN....FAST!!!

Knock-a-Door Run + modified version

Surley everybody has played this game when they were younger its all 
streight forward knock on a door and run away **BORING!!!** you can make it 
better in loads of ways. Here's an example. If all of your crew have 
BB/Pelet/Dart guns and you are after some person that does'nt come out of 
his house, depending on the size of you crew get a few people to hide near 
the house and get about 2 to knock on the door to get a chase then stop when 
your a distance infront and blast the fucker if he trys to get away, whisle 
the people that are hiding and to ambush the fucker.

Spree

A spree is just like Hedge Hopping but knocking, booting, punching ect ect 
on windows WITH OUT STOPING. It is better done on houses with no front 
garden and with their windows facing on to the road. Try and beat my record 
of 23 houses :).

Hedge Hopping

Run into peoples gardens jump over their fences, bushes into the next garden 
over the fence into the next garden over the wall into the next garden kick 
the gnome over the fence into the next garden.....

Milk Bottle Trick

Get an glass milk bottle filled with anything and slide it on to the door 
handle, then knock on the door and RUN!! then seconds later you will here a 
smash. Depending on what you have filled the bottle with will, it will have 
splashed all over there door step. I suggest filling it with piss and stink 
bombs.

Shit Stick

Very easy and very funny.

Get a small strong stick.
Find some dog shit
Stab the dog shit.
Throw it at a window
Watch the shit splat on the window. The house owner wont pick it off with 
his hands (or unless he's a dirty bastard) so he'll have to scrape it off, 
leaving a mark on the window.

Lighter Trick

Get and plasic lighter (one that works) and face it with the metal bit 
towards the destination. Then Throw it as hard as you can, then BANG!! Its 
better at a windows because it scares the people inside.

Door Step Trick

1) Get some slippy transparent liquid and pour it all over the door step, 
then when sombody steps out their door they'll slip. 2) Get some Tar, Super 
Glue or Cement and pour it all over the door step, the when somebody steps 
out thier door they'll get stuck. 3) Put dog shit on thier door step and 
when they step out their door they'll stand on it and walk in and out places 
with it.

Bus's

One of the funniest things for me is getting chased by a bus driver. You can 
smash bus windows and they're not allowed to chase you in their buses 
because they're on a strict routine BUT they can stop the bus and chase you, 
usually the passenges come out and help the driver catch you.

Barrier (There are many names for this)

Two people stand in the middle of the road and when a car comes PRETEND to 
uncoil wire while walking backwards, when the car is quite near PRETEND to 
pull the wire sharply, the car will swerve. After that just RUN...like the 
wind.

Getting Away From a Chase

If you do one of the above and somebody comes out and starts chasing JUST 
you lead him away from the area you live at. Dont run towards where there is 
a road with busy traffic, if you do so you could get hit by a car or if a 
cop car is there the person chasing you is likly to stop the police and tell 
them. Just run towards somewhere dark and quiet, get down and hide streight 
away and the person will likly run past you or look some where else. Then 
when the person has lost you take your coat off and stuff it up your shirt, 
so the person wont recognise you. If he grabs you just make up an excuse, if 
he dont buy it say "my dad is a cop and i would never do anything to upset 
him" if all else fails fucking run, Just dont let him see your face.

If you feel out of breath while being chased, try not to worry......just 
think think about what would happend if you get caught. When Mischiefing you 
should be ALWAYS BE PREPARED FOR SOMEBODY TO TAKE YOUR PICTURE!! they will 
show it to the police so wear a baseball Cap ect ect...

If you get chased and your with about 4-10 of your crew, If the person takes 
a picture of you, try your best to destroy the it. If the person is male and 
is looking for a fight turn around and beat the bastard up (Not to much 
though), But dont if the person is Female and is old. If you have some Eggs 
on you, throw them behind you, If one hits, it will slow him/her down.

When getting chased by a cop JUST run, dont assault the cop because if you 
get caught ( I hope not ) it will double your punishment. Most Cops are fat 
bastards so you'll out run them with ease but dont forget to hide before he 
calls for reinforcements. If you know where loads of druggies hang out (make 
sure they're just little punks that cant do shit to you) and your being 
chased by a cop run into the place and run out very quickly, everybody will 
scatter and the cop will probley forget about you.

If you are ever out of options and you have to go home DON'T let anybody see 
you, and when you get in and your parents see you and ask "what were you 
upto" dont make it look to obviouse, make some story up. Ring one of your 
friends that was with you and ask him about the stuff what happend when you 
were gone. Dont worry about the people you were with telling on you, If 
they're truely your friends they will not tell on you. If you dont think 
they are, you shouldn't be hanging around with them.

-Hakka-

more to come ;)

Written: April 2002

