inhibited only by the weight of words

leading each other / through self / intersections of self / protocol strips 
down / informative layers / to a skeletal world / remove the visceral face to 
face / the only sensation / intersections between us / two apparitions / 
leading each other / through our selves / stripped down by protocol / to 
skeletal worlds / below the visceral / a deeply informative / apparitional 
protocol


-----


a cloud of theory forming \ embodies and is embodied-by \ the buoyancy of love \

the buoyancy of love / mutual recognition / the discourse will continue / in 
mutual recognition / a kind of interpersonal / buoyancy of love / this love is 
mutual recognition / ambiguity will continue / the discourse will continue / 
the buoyancy of love / will continue / no longer alienated / no longer choking 
/ on the other / intensely focused / on an other / analyzing the other / 
focused on the other / analyzing not the other but what communicative 
frameworks allow this / analyzing not the mutual recognition / but the 
communicative frameworks that allow this connection / will continue / the 
buoyancy of love / analyzing not the / interpersonal / buoyancy of love / will 
continue / no longer alienated / no longer choking on the other / no longer 
choking / what communicative framework allows this / focused on the other / 
will continue / the discourse will continue / this love is mutual recognition / 
ambiguity will continue / no longer choking / a kind of interpersonal / i don't 
expect sudden coherence / once obscured / no longer alienated / a cloud of 
theory forming / embodies and is embodied-by / i don't expect / coherence of 
the other / focused on the other / the buoyancy of the other / mutual 
recognition / ambiguity of the self / will continue / analyzing the self / 
focused on the other / the discourse of the self / the interpersonal self / no 
longer choking on the self / what communicative framework allows this / 
interpersonal / love


-----


poetry

i want to write poetry that's so bad it'll burn a hole in space-time and bring 
me to you.


----------

by 6billionghosts

http://aghostflower.blogspot.com
http://www.machinebook.org

6billionghosts at gmail dot com
