        ___________
       |A   _______|___
       |$  |J _______  |
       |   |$|       | |
       |   | |       | |
     Gambling at Blackjack
By Zero

E-Mail at zerotextspy@yahoo.com

	I originally wrote this guide to sell on Ebay. But one shot of trying to sell this 
guide I realized that no one would want to bid on it. So I'm submitting it to the ever-so 
amazing textfiles.com (thanks Jason for your public service). If anyone has looked around 
on textfiles uploads section before, they have probably seen some of my (rather horrible) 
textfiles.
    
	I am a gambler; I love to gamble. The worst thing about gambling though has to be 
losing, of course - its a given isn't it? Who likes to lose their money? I can lose a play 
hand at blackjack and not care, but if I lose actual money, the game becomes no fun real 
quick. One day I was playing free blackjack online (no real money). I bet $5, and lost. 
Then I decided to bet $10, and lost. After that I bet $20, and won. I realized that I made 
$5 profit from where I originally started. It was then that I started playing with this 
method and refining it so I could actually make profit with it.

    I recently discovered this method, and it has worked for me for over a year now. When 
I first discovered it while playing free online blackjack, money symbols flushed my eyes, 
and I tested it more and more until I became confident that I could take the house. At 
this time I signed up for pokerroom.com (the first online casino I could find in Google 
Search). I used my debit card to put $700 in to start. I stayed up all night clicking, 
watching my own personal jackpot get higher and higher. By 6am I had $8,000 in my account, 
and I cashed out $7,300, that way I could play for more. I have been doing this for about 
five months now, you can imagine where I am. Last month I took a trip to Las Vegas 
planning on using $10,000 as a starting source; I came back with an unholy amount of 
money. This system works flawlessly.

    So how does it work? It's very simple. Lets say you have $100, and want to make a $2 
bet - you lose, and are down to $98. So Then you bet $4, you lose, and are now down to 
$94. Now you bet $8, and win. Since you bet $8, you get $8 back, which covers for the $6 
you previously lost, and adds $2 profit, making your current total at $102. Instead of 
keeping a steady bet at $8, you drop it back down to $2. The idea is that when you lose, 
you double your previous bet. No matter how much you bet, you will always come out as if 
you won your first bet, if not better (getting Blackjack will turn you out with more 
profit).

    There is a 'dangerous' aspect of this betting system. If you do not have enough money 
to back your previous bets up, you can ultimately lose. The two most common 'danger' 
aspects of this system can be overcome easily. #1, have enough money to back up your 
previous bets for at least 7 bets worth. #2, do not chicken out and get scared when having 
to bet large amounts.
    You will have losing streaks, it just happens. But if you have money to back yourself 
up, you have absolutely nothing to worry about. Lets say you are making bets of $2, and 
you hit a losing streak, losing 7 times (rare). It will go like this:

$2, $4, $8, $16, $32, $64, $128 (loss), $256 (win).

You will have dished out $510. Since you won with the $256, you will have back $512, $2 of 
which is profit. The math goes like this:

$2 + $4 + $8 + $16 + $32 + $64 + $128 = $254 (Lost Bets)
$256 (last bet) x 2 (won) = $512 (On Hand)
Which Finalizes To: $512 (final) - $254 (lost) = $258. Then $258 - $256 (last bet) = $2 (Final Profit)

    Essentially, it simply LOOKS like you are making high-stakes bets, when really you are 
simply playing the odds to your advantage. The odds say that if you play decent hands at 
blackjack (look further down in this guide for some of my own blackjack pointers), then 
the odds will be in the millions that you will lose eight hands in a row.

    You can variate off of the $2 as much as you want, just make sure that you are always 
able to cover it eight times. One time I taught this betting strategy to a friend of mine, 
and he liked it right up until he decided to "get brave" and bet $50. His reasoning was 
that he had enough to lose $50, and could "make it back" if he lost. His problem was that 
he lost everything because his lost his initial $50, and subsequently $100, then $200, and 
he was done. If you get too greedy, or too brave, it simply will not work. Imagine if you 
decided to bet $25, and lost it, and then decided to play this system, here's how it would 
go with 7 losses:

$25 + $50 + $100 + $200 + $400 + $800 + $1,600 = $3,175

Initially, any starting bet is going to seem smaller than it really is when using this 
system. It all adds up - so watch out for greed.

    Always remember that when you finally win a hand, you always go back to your first 
initial bet. If you go higher than your desired initial bet, there is always that chance 
that you will hit a losing streak, and will not have enough money to back yourself up.
    In Blackjack, there are other variables for you to watch out for. Number one is that 
if the dealer Pushes you, you make the exact same bet as you did before. The reason being 
(obviously) that neither the dealer nor you won - your money was returned to you. If you 
started over you would be out so many dollars. Unless you are pushed at your initial bet, 
of course; then you can't be out a dime. 

    One really cool variable is when you are on a losing streak, and score a blackjack 
near the end of the losing streak. The cool part about this is the payoff. If you have 
(for example) $80 in, you will get $200 back ($80 (bet) x 2 (won) + $40 (blackjack) = 
$200). Consider this a $40 bonus. Most blackjacks will occur on the initial bet, or close 
to it - so don't get your hopes up for it. Losing streaks are not a good thing, but they 
do pay off pretty big when you get a blackjack just at the right time. Even when getting a 
blackjack at the initial bet, and your initial bet is $5, that's a $2.50 bonus, which is 
$7.50 profit from the hand.

    Another variable is 'Doubling up;' when you double your bet on a hand in exchange for 
being hit only once. If you have an 11, doubling your bet is always a good idea; that does 
not hold true with this system. Lets say for example that you have bet $5, and you got an 
11, it could be considered safe to double up to $10. However, if you lose, you are going 
to have to double your doubled bet - so you would have to bet $20. Doubling is still fine, 
but just remember that you have to re-double if you lose. Essentially, this would mean 
that you would have to have enough money to back you up for 8 losses instead of 7; 
doubling on one game can cripple this betting strategy. To prevent this, I stay safe by 
just ignoring the option to double until I have enough to cover the possible losing 
streak.

    Splitting is yet another variable, and a rather tricky one at that. Lets say you have 
a hand at $5, and you split it - that makes it a new bet of $10. So what if you have an 11 
on one of them, and made a 19 with the other. When you double the first, you are adding $5 
to it, so you are now up to $15. Now say you lost the one you doubled, and won the 19 hand:
 What do you do? You bet $20, you just lost $10. Say you lost both of them: You bet $15 on 
them, so you have to double to $30, and so on. Splitting can be risky if you get carried 
away with doubling, as you can see. This hand could go sour pretty easily, as shown:

$15 + $30 + $60 + $120 + $240 + $480 + $960 = $1,905

    Obviously, if you play bad hands at blackjack, this system is going to fail you with 
massive losing streaks. Because of this alone, I suggest honing up on your own blackjack 
skills. I used to think that if I stood on 17 that I would be fine - this just doesn't 
work. You can increase your odds if you just follow a few simple rules, or just pick up on 
a hard-to-remember blackjack system. 

Okay, all of that is pretty difficult to remember. So assuming that you do not want to 
remember all of that, there are still bits and pieces you can take away from it to 
increase your odds quite a bit. Always stand on 17 (duh). If the dealer is showing 6 or 
below, and you have 12 to 16, it is a good idea to not hit, because you will most likely 
bust. I take my chances when I have a 12 and hit anyway. If you want to double, only 
double when you are betting a small amount, and only double on 11 - if 10 play it by 
heart (or see the table). Only double on 9 if the dealer has 6 or below. Never, ever split 
if you have 16, 18, or 20 - those hands are too good to split on, what if you get two bad 
hands from the split? If you have two aces or two eights, split (if it is worth it in the 
bet).

That's it! Really! A working method for blackjack gambling - and yes believe me it works 
perfect. If you don't believe me, just go to Yahoo! Blackjack or pokerroom.com blackjack 
(yes they have free blackjack tables), load up to about $700, and make $5 bets using this 
method. You will see rather quickly that this method works exceedingly well.
