+======================================+
| Night to Remember 2 by Hakka (story) |
+======================================+

I stayed at Sam's house for an extra nite and on that nite me, Sam, Toyne 
and Luke went out again with the Camcorder. Sutton didn't make it. Before we 
called for Luke the 3 of us went to the local super market, Toyne stood 
outside hiding the Camcorder while me and Sam went in and bought some eggs. 
We went and called for Luke and while we were waiting for him to finish his 
dinner, this little kid was kicking a football around the street, he kicked 
it near me and i was bored so i picked it up and kicked it over a few 
houses, the little kid started crying and ran inside his house, this was the 
starter for my afternoon hahahahah.

We were all set, it was getting dark and decided we should start the 
mischief, So we went back to our old friends "The Sea Cadets", It was all 
quite and the lights were on. I prepared 1 egg, gave two to Sam and 1 to 
Luke and Toyne got ready to record. Toyne said "Right im recording" then i 
shouted "NOW!!!". I threw my egg "BANG", it hit the top corner of the 
window, Sam threw the next egg "BUMP" it hit the side of the window, Luke 
threw an Egg "BANG", it hit the center of the window, me and Luke started 
running but Toyne was still stood there filming, Sam still had another egg, 
he turned a threw it "BANG!" it hit right in the middle of the window. We 
ran up to the cannal, i could hear "YA BETTER RUN!!!" so we looked back, 
there we saw two fat bastard trying to run after us, i couldn't stop 
laughing, so to make it better we all shouted some abuse.

We walked about for a bit and took a little rest from all the running, we 
still had about 7 eggs left but about 3 broke while we were running. We came 
to the cannal again and saw some flats across it, me, Sam and Luke attempted 
to egg one of the flats windows from anout 30 yards away. We wasted about 5 
eggs trying to hit it, I tyred......and missed............Sam tryed and 
missed...........then out of luck Luke threw one...............BANG!!, it 
hit!. Then this bloke came to the window and started stearing that us, so we 
shouted some insults at him, "YOU FUCKEN ASSHOLE"......."DO YA LIKE EGGS?, 
FAGGOT".....we tought that was a bit boring so we went on a mission. The 
Mission was the Whiteheads, these were gypsies that have 14 children in 
there house. Toyne recorded our intro for the mission then we went to 
work.....me and Sam both got 1 big brick each....1....2....3...BANG!!! they 
hit the bottom window and so we all ran as fast as we could. We ran half way 
up the street and turned around to see if we got a chase, then a smelly 
bastard came running around the corner then we ran again as fast as we could 
again. We were running around all the streets and houses for abou 3 minutes 
untill i ran out of breath i stopped and looked around and saw Toyne at a 
garden gate, i then saw him jump over it......i followed him and hid in the 
garden, this garden was big with a big hedge around it. As we were hiding we 
wonderd where Sam had go to, while we were hiding Toyne was shitting his 
pants but me and Luke couldn't stop laughing, we could hear bike riding by 
us and noises of a car screeching it went on for about 10, then we could 
hear somebody wistling......we all paused....we thought it could of been a 
trap.....nut then we found out it was Sam, We jumped out and all ran to the 
park as fast as we could. We all sat down and got our breath back I asked 
what time it was and it was nearly 10pm, as we only thought it was about 
8pm. Then we all went in. Me and Sam went back his house and watched the 
Video, we laughed all nite and replayed it about 30 times.

Then when i next came down, i got the news that dumbass Toyne Taped over it 
all, but we aim to start again :).

-Hakka-

>From the mischiefers Bible crew

