
==============================
MAKING A ROCK HURLER by Jeffro
==============================

This file is to make a "rock hurler", which is easy. 

Take a 1 foot 1/2 inch to a 2 foot piece of PVC pipe that has 1 inch
diameter and drill a 1/4 inch hole about 1/2 inch from the bottom through
both sides. Run a piece of rope or string through the holes and tie it so
it will never come off because it takes some wear and tear.  You could
also replace the string with wire it could hang on a belt and be more
durable. I find that 1 foot 1/2 inch piece of PVC works best but 2 foot
will work also. To fire it, you drop a rock into the end farthest away
from the string. The rope or wire prevents it from falling out making you
burn more calories to bend over and pick it up!

The next part is the hard to explain. With the flick of your wrist and the
movement of your arm (like you're throwing a baseball) you can watch that
rock land about 150 ft away. It is hard to explain in writing about your
arm, but just experiment. You don’t have to flick your wrist, but it adds
more power. Step just before you throw to add more power. With practice
you will find the right speed to move your arm and the right arc for the
best distance. Remember that you have to take into account that the rock
is sliding up the tube while your arm is moving, so it might come out
sooner than you expect.

Another idea is super gluing a BB to the primer of a shot gun shell and
hurling that, just don’t kill Mrs. Johnson walking down the street! I
haven’t tried it but the shell probably will turn and not land on the BB
so I would carefully open the crimp on the shell and take out the pellets.
Then stick a wad of paper down by the powder to hold it in during flight.
That would make it land right and it would be a lot safer (like you
care!). I have an empty 12 gauge shot gun shell that I use a lot and I am
working on a parachute system to bring it back down slow. I don’t know
what that could be used for, because it would be to slow to detonate a
shot gun shell. If you have found a way to get it far and then the
parachute opens, or what it could be used for, please e-mail me. I’m
also working on fins for the shot gun shell, since the empty one tends to
come down with the tail in a big spiral. I have found that taping a 4 - 6
inch piece of string to the side of the shell eliminates that problem.
Make sure that about 80 percent of the string sticks out over the end so
it will act like a fin. You could make a new hurler the size of eggs
and go egg dead Mrs. Johnson’s house. Put up a target on the front door
and have a contest with your friends! She doesn’t care

>Oh well. That’s the rock hurler so have fun with it and use common sense,
just don’t kill your self

I take no responsibility for you injuring yourself, others, or destroying
property.

A work from Jeffro - jfdarden@hotmail.com

(c)opy the whole thing freely, just don’t change any one part without
letting me know.
