
    .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
   .MMMMMMMMMMMMMM  The Web Page You Have Reached  MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
  .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM   http://www.twpyhr.com   MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
 .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
 .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM   Presents   MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
 .MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.   .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.   .MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
  .MMMMMMMMMMMMM.  .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.  .MMMMMMMMMMMMM.
                  .MM   Amtel 2000 Tele-Entry   MM.
                 .MMMMMMMMMM   System   MMMMMMMMMMM.
                .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
               .MMMMMMMMMMMMM   2001   MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
              .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
             .MMMMMMMMMMMMM   By: Jenn   MMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
            .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
           .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
          .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
          .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM. 
           .MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM.
              
What equipment was used:_____________________________________________


1. (Not sure if this is the exact model)
Wall Switch Reader - 4" read range - Black or Beige or
White. (221-505)

About 5"x5"x3". Black square mounted on wall.

2. Amtel Standard proximity tags for keyrings. (223)
http://www.amtel-security.com/products/accesscontroldevices/proximitytechnol
ogymotorola.htm
  _____
 '  o  '  About 1/8" thick. Grey with hole for keyring.
  \   /    Had a 6 digit number printed in pink on back.
   ._.

3. Amtel TeleEntry 2000
http://www.amtel-security.com/products/telephoneentrysys/a9-1products.htm
PDF File With More Indepth Info
http://www.amtel-security.com/cutsheetsnap/products/telephoneentry/te2000.ht
m

Keypad and headset looked like payphone keypad and headset. Had an black on
green backlit LCD display. Forget what it displayed before anyone picked up
the phone but would print numbers dialed as dialed. Had visor over display
to reduce glare and prying eyes, I suppose. If I remember correctly,
instructions were printed on the actual unit.


4. Closed circuit television surveilence which worked only
with cable (Americast (http://www.ameritech.com/content/0,3086,6,00.html)
(Unknown type model)

Camera pointed at TeleEntry 2000. If I remember correctly it used channel 3.


Location:____________________________________________________________

200 Arlington Place Apartments, Arlington Heights, Illinois


Basic Description Of Use:____________________________________________

o Residents

To unlock the entry doors (not individual apartment doors) from the outside
of the building, residents would use the wall switch reader and proximity
tag. They would wave the tag in front of the wall switch reader and the door
would quietly buzz and unlock for about 8 seconds.

o Visitors

They would look at the TeleEntry 2000 fumble with it and THEN read the
instructions (heh). But seriously.. They would look up the three digit
"extension" (not really but best analogy I could come up with) on the
directory on mounted on the wall (not computerized) corresponding to the
resident they want to reach, use the TeleEntry 2000 to dial that code, the
resident would then press 7 or 9 to remotely unlock the door, the door would
quiety buzz for 8 seconds and automatically unlock.


Discoveries__________________________________________________________

When a visitor would 'call' from the front door using the TeleEntry 2000,
(847) 506-1230 (This is from memory from 3 years ago so don't quote me)
would appear on the caller ID.  At the other end of this number was a modem.
When someone was connected to that number, when visitors picked up the
handset of the TeleEntry 2000 downstairs they could hear the modem and were
unable to use the TeleEntry 2000. When dialed into the modem (at 7-e-1 I
believe, but again.. memory.. 3 years ago), the output would look similar to
the following (memory.. 3 years ago.)

102398 11:51:23 123456 3

The first number was the date. Any single digits were preceeded with a zero
(IOW, March is month 3 and would be seen as 03)

The second number was the time in hh:mm:ss format.

The third number was the six digit number printed on the back of the
residents proximity tag.

The fourth number was the door number. For this building (may be different
with others)
1 was the front door
2 was the back door
3 was a side/back door


If a visitor 'called' a resident with the TeleEntry 2000  whose phone line
was busy, they would hear the busy signal as well as the name and number
delivery ad for Ameritech one would hear as they made a regular phone call
with a regular phone (http://twpyhr.multiservers.com/nandn1.wav)

If I remember correctly, when you picked up the handset on the TeleEntry
2000, you would hear a normal dialtone and not a pbx 'dial tone.'

There was a code the mailman used to dial into the TeleEntry 2000 to open
the door without being 'buzzed in' by a resident. Never got around to
shoulder surfing it.

Sometimes when you dialed the number that showed up on the caller ID for
calls from the TeleEntry 2000, instead of hearing the modem, you could
eavesdrop :)

I still have a proximity tag somewhere... If I find it, I'll dissect it and
take pictures.

  ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   
 /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ 
/:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\

                        The Web Page You Have Reached                         
                            http://www.twpyhr.com
 Telephone sounds and recordings, scans, telecom news, The Touch Tone Tunes
                        FAQ, The Phoney Dance and more.
  ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   ____   
 /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ /:/\ \ 
/:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\:/  \_\
