

Why We Hurt version 1	Oct. 15, 2002

This is a document that will try to explain the possibilities answering the 
question "why", in relation to several terrorist actions of late, and poor 
relations with foreign countries. Namely, we are hurting because we as a 
nation suck, and we are too blind to see it. "Suck" is such a general word. 
The possible reasons that we are experiencing such outrageous acts of 
violence are as follows: Terrorists want to send a message that we are 
vulnerable to such attacks. Before recently, the average person in America 
had a feeling like nothing bad could happen to them. Walking in the open, 
leaving doors unlocked, and taking many risks were common. How weak we were 
in the mind, thinking that the police were some omnipotent force that would 
prevent anything happening to them. When Americans see the Third World 
horrors on TV, they say "That could never happen to me". Fools! It makes 
even me uneasy when I see how careless we are. And what were the 
consequences of this overkill carefree attitude? 9-11 attacks. Sniper 
shootings. Anthrax epidemic. Is it still worth it to ignore reality? What 
I'm talking about is the general feeling, the opinions of the average 
American, or at least the description of the American stereotype. If an 
Islamic terrorist over in Islam were to take our TV commercials as a sample 
of who we are as a nation (which isn't that far off), they would be 
disgusted. Nothing but sex, violence, and general sinning. Could a person of 
different culture and upbringing be disgusted enough to hijack a plane and 
crash it into the World Trade Center? Why not?

The other possibility is that "they", as we love to call an unmasked terror, 
are jealous. Other hostile countries are just jealous of what we have, when 
they have nothing, or very little. And these opinions I'm talking about are 
those of the extremely wealthy in other countries. It really doesn't matter 
what the opinion of the general oppressed public is, because no terrorist 
attack was ever executed without the help of a financial backer.

We have a problem. Are we to convince the entire public to change their 
whole way of life? Of course not. My father could barely get me to eat 
correctly at the table. But if our way of living went in harmany with 
"theirs", maybe we would have harmony. But we don't, because we are 
different. How are we different? We are superrich, they are very poor. We 
waste tons of food daily. They are starving. We barely vote anymore. They 
gladly die to make a small difference to change their country from what it 
is. We are totally dependent on "their" oil in order to carry out our 
beautiful ignorant and uneconomical way of life. They sell it because it is 
all they have to sell to survive. However, we do share some things in 
common. For one, both sides dislike their government. Well, they HATE their 
government, and with just cause. And if we knew about half the things our 
government had done over the years, we would be in outrage too. Also, the 
general public of both sides don't feel like they can control the 
government, that they are controlling us. When our Constitution was first 
made, it was supposed to serve the wants and needs of the people, not 
control and regulate against us.

Hey, America is great. Personally, I'm having a blast ordering food I know 
I'm not going to finish, having sex with women left and right, and the high 
crime rate gives a great sense of danger in the air. But hey, we must be 
doing something wrong when we are getting bombed, poisoned, and sniped all 
over the place. Wake up people, there must be something wrong with us. And 
the reason that thing is not crystal clear to us is because we are ignorant. 
Our ignorance is finally making us pay. And when I see another terrorist 
incident on the news, always always always there are interviews of the 
general public who say this: "I'm going to look out for that now. I'm going 
to be less ignorrant". Yes, that is exactly what "the terrorists" want the 
outcome to be, and although the ends do not justify the means, the means 
were needed here.

ENDER



_________________________________________________________________
Unlimited Internet access -- and 2 months free!  Try MSN. 
http://resourcecenter.msn.com/access/plans/2monthsfree.asp

