DESCRIPTION OF INCLUDED GAMES
=============================

This file contains brief description of all included games. Adventureland,
Pirate Adventure, The Count, Strange Oddysey, Mystery Fun House, Ghost Town,
Savage Island part I and II, and Sorcerer of Claymorgue Castle are extracted
from TRS-80. Adventure Sample, Voodoo Castle and Pyramid of Doom are converted
from the Apple II. Return to Pirate's Isle is extracted from the TI-99/4A.
Secret Mission is extracted from ZX Spectrum.

*** ADVENTURE SAMPLE ***

A demo of Scott Adams classic game "Adventureland", released as free
distributed sampler. Included here for completeness. But, if you never tried
adventure games before, try this demo: this is much shorter and easier to
solve than fully version of "Adventureland". You need to find 3 hidden
treasures.

*** ADVENTURELAND ***

Classic adventure 1. You wander through an enchanted world trying to recover
the 13 lost treasures. You'll encounter wild animals, magical beings, and many
other perils and puzzles. Can you rescue the Blue Ox from the quicksand? Or
find your way out of the maze of pits? Happy Adventuring... This is the Adams
Classic that started it all! Note: This game survived Scott Adams' wife Alexis
putting the disks with the source code in the oven one time when she got sick
of Scott working so much on it.

*** PIRATE ADVENTURE ***

Classic adventure 2. 'Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum...' You'll meet up with the
pirate and his daffy bird along with many strange sights as you attempt to go
from your London flat to Treasure Island. Only by exploring this strange
island will you be able to uncover the clues necessary to lead you to your
elusive goal -- recovering the lost treasures of Long John Silver. Happy
sailing, matey... Written by Scott & Alexis Adams. Yet another true classic.
Easy game, good for beginners.

*** SECRET MISSION (AKA MISSION IMPOSSIBLE) ***

Classic adventure 3. In this exciting Adventure, time is of the essence as you
race the clock to complete your mission in time -- or else the world's first
automated nuclear reactor is doomed! So, tread lightly and don't forget your
bomb detector! If you survive this challenging mission, consider yourself a
true Adventurer! Not impossible - just hard. Written by Scott Adams.

*** VOODOO CASTLE ***

Classic adventure 4. The Count Cristo has fallen victim to a fiendish curse
placed on him by his enemies. There he lies, with you his only possible hope.
Will you be able to rescue him or is he forever doomed?! Beware the Voodoo
man... Written by Scott & Alexis Adams.

*** THE COUNT ***

Classic adventure 5. This was the first Scott Adams game that used time as an
important element of play. It takes place over a three day/three night cycle.
It begins when you awake in a large brass bed in a castle somewhere in
Transylvania. Who are you, what are you doing here and WHY did the postman
deliver a bottle of blood?

*** STRANGE ODYSSEY ***

Classic adventure 6. At the galaxy's rim, there are rewards aplenty to be
harvested from a long-dead alien civilization, including fabulous treasures
and advanced technologies far beyond human ken! Can you collect the treasures
and return or will you end up marooned forever? Prepare yourself for the
incredible! This adventure quite difficult. Written by Scott Adams.

*** MYSTERY FUN HOUSE ***

Classic adventure 7. As this adventure begins, you find yourself hopelessly
lost in the middle of a carnival fun house. Can you find your way completely
through the strangest Fun House in existance, or will you always be kicked out
when the park closes? While escape may elude you, one thing is very clear --
you're NOT here to have a good time! Written by Scott Adams.

*** PYRAMID OF DOOM ***

Classic adventure 8. This is an Adventure that will transport you to a
dangerous land of crumbling ruins and trackless desert wastes into the PYRAMID
OF DOOM! Jewels, gold -- it's all here for the plundering -- IF you can find
the way. Written by Alvin Files.

*** GHOST TOWN ***

Classic adventure 9. You must explore a once-thriving mining town in search of
the 13 hidden treasures. With everything from rattlesnakes to runaway horses,
it sure ain't going to be easy! Includes a special bonus scoring system too!
Written by Scott Adams.

*** SAVAGE ISLAND PART I ***

Classic adventure 10. A small island holds an awesome secret -- will you be
able to discover it? This is the beginning of a two-part Adventure, which is
very tough but absolutely unforgettable once you solve it. Written by Scott
Adams. Note: For experienced Adventurers only!

*** SAVAGE ISLAND PART II ***

Classic adventure 11. The suspense begun in Savage Island part I now comes to
an incredible conclusion with SAVAGE ISLAND PART II! This Adventure requires
you to have successfully finished part I, wherein you were given the secret
password to begin this final half. Written by Scott Adams & Russ Wetmore.
Extremely hard, for experienced Adventurers only!

*** SORCERER OF CLAYMORGUE CASTLE ***

Classic adventure 13. Solon the Master Wizard has learnt of Vileroth's
destruction and how, in his final days, he concealed the stolen 13 Stars of
Power within the Castle of Claymorgue, determined that no one should possess
them. As Solon's apprentice with a few spells, can you recover Solon's stolen
Stars? The Castle contains further spells but beware -- as an apprentice you
may find the results unpredictable! This game is tricky and hard. Written by
Scott Adams.

*** RETURN OF PIRATE'S ISLE ***

Classic adventure 14. This game is as tricky and devious as the mind of Scott
Adams gets. A treasure hunt in the same vein as its predecessor, it
incorporates some of the more interesting effects Scott achieved using his
system. Knowledge of "Pirate Adventure" is essential.

