CHAPTER I
THE LAW OF VIBRATION   

Students of history find a continuous chain of reference to the 
mysterious influence of one human mind over that of others. In the 
earliest records, traditions and legends may be found giving reference 
to the general belief that it was possible for an individual to exert 
some weird uncanny power over the minds of other persons, which would 
influence the latter for good or evil. And more than this, the student 
will find an accompanying belief that certain individuals are possessed 
of some mental power which bends even "things" and circumstances to its 
might. 

Way back in the dim past of man's history on this planet, this belief 
existed, and it has steadily persisted in spite of the strenuous 
opposition of material science, even unto the present day. The years 
have not affected the belief, and in these dawning days of the Twentieth 
Century it has taken on a new strength and vitality, for its adherents 
have boldly stepped to the front, and confronting the doubting 
materialistic thinkers, have claimed the name of "Science" for this 
truth and have insisted that it be taken, once and for all, from the 
category of superstition, credulity and ignorant phantasm. 

Were it not pitiable, it would be amusing to glance at the presumptuous, 
complacent, smug, self-satisfied position of the materialistic school of 
thinkers, who would brush aside as a foolish delusion that which many of 
the wisest men of a past age have accepted and taught as the truth. The 
modern "know-it-alls" would sneer contemptuously at facts that are known 
to be of actual occurrence in the daily lives of thousands of 
intelligent people, and which the experience of humankind has 
demonstrated for many centuries, in all lands and all races. 

The trouble lies in the dogmatic assumption of the materialistic school 
that what is known as "mind" is merely some peculiar action of the 
material brain, some writers even holding that "the brain secretes 
thought, just as the liver secretes bile." They refuse to see that the 
operation of Mind is a manifestation of energy known as electricity, 
magnetism, light, heat, gravitation, cohesion, etc. Because mental 
energy does not register the vibrations of these lower forms of energy, 
they conclude that the higher mental energy does not exist. Having 
formulated a theory to suit their materialistic conceptions, they try to 
ignore all facts not consistent with their theory. If they find a fact 
that will not squeeze into their narrow theory well, "so much the worse 
for the fact," as a writer has said and they promptly ignore or dispute 
it. 

As a matter of truth, the investigator is not compelled to resort to 
metaphysical explanations to account for the phenomena of Mental 
Influence. The very facts of physical science itself, if rightly 
interpreted, will give the clue to the mystery; and will point the steps 
of the honest investigator toward the path where he may find the 
solution of the perplexing riddle. Although we know that the real 
solution lies in the metaphysical realm, still even physical science 
will corroborate the facts of its metaphysical sister science, and 
instead of contradicting the latter will actually go far toward 
furnishing analogous facts and principles basis for a theory of 
metaphysical facts. 

The student will see at once that so far as physical science is 
concerned, it must begin at the phenomenon of "Thought Transference," 
for in that phase of the subject may be found an elementary principle in 
evidence in many other forms of phenomena. We have given many instances 
of "Thought Transference" in the two proceeding volumes of this series, 
entitled "Mind Reading" and "Psychomancy," respectively, and so we need 
not repeat the same in this place. The main fact is that "Thought 
Transference" does exist, and may be accounted for upon purely 
scientific grounds, without calling in the truths of metaphysical 
thought. We know that this is a strong statement, and a positive 
assertion, but we also know that the same may be demonstrated. Let us 
consider this phase of the subject. 

In the first place, physical science teaches that underlying all forms, 
degrees and apparent differences in matter and energy, there is to be 
found a manifestation of some elementary energy, which manifests in what 
is known as "Vibrations." Everything in the material world is in 
vibration - ever manifesting a high degree of motion. Without vibration 
there would be no such thing as a material universe. From the 
electronic-corpuscles which science teaches compose the atom; up through 
the atom and molecule, until the most complex forms of matter are 
manifested, there is the ever-present Vibration. And through all forms 
of energy, light, heat, electricity, magnetism and the rest, Vibration 
is also ever present. In fact, physical science itself teaches that not 
only is Vibration the basic force underlying other forces and the 
various forms of matter, but also that the apparent differences between 
the various forms of matter, and also between the various forms of 
energy, are caused simply and solely by the varying degrees of Vibration 
manifested. 

Just as the difference between the lowest tone that can be distinguished 
by the ear of man, and the highest note that can be distinguished by the 
same organ of sense, is merely a difference between the rate of 
Vibration - just as is the difference between the dull red color at one 
end of the spectrum, and the violet at the other end, with the 
intervening colors known as indigo, blue green, yellow and orange, with 
all the combinations of shades arising from them - just as the 
difference between the greatest degree of cold known to Science, and the 
greatest degree of heat that can be conceived of - just as these great 
differences due solely and wholly to varying rates of Vibration - so is 
the difference between and all forms of matter or force simply a matter 
of the rate of Vibration. In short, all material and physical "Things" 
are simply manifestations of some "infinite and eternal energy from 
which all things proceed," their differences resulting merely from the 
different degree of Vibration being manifested in them. Remember, that 
this is not "vague philosophy" or "airy metaphysics" or "spiritualistic 
vagaries" (to quote from the materialistic writers), but facts claimed 
and admitted by the greatest physical scientists of the age, as a 
reference to their lectures and textbooks will prove to anyone. 

And, more than this, any intelligent physical scientist will tell you 
that Science has every reason to believe that there are great fields of 
energy and force, the Vibrations of which are far too high for even the 
delicate instruments of science to record, but which nevertheless exist 
and manifest effects. It was only the other day that Science was able to 
"catch" the "X-rays" and other forms of high Radio-activity, and yet 
these rays and forces had always existed. And tomorrow Science will 
perfect instruments capable of registering still higher forms of energy. 
And bye-and-bye, some scientist will perfect an instrument capable of 
registering and recording the subtle vibrations of Thought, and perhaps 
in time someone will perfect that instrument so that it will not only 
record such Thought vibrations and waves, but, like the phonograph, it 
will be able to reproduce and send forth similar vibrations so that 
others may feel the thoughts, just as they now hear the sounds from the 
phonograph. Such a prediction is no more wonderful then would have been 
the prediction of the telephone, the phonograph, the wireless telegraph 
and sundry other discoveries and inventions a hundred years ago. 

Did you ever think that there are colors that the eye cannot see, but 
which delicate instruments clearly register? In fact, the rays of tight 
which sunburn the face, and which register on the photographic plate are 
not visible to the eye. The eye sees the lower rays, but only 
instruments adapted for the purpose detect the higher ones. Your eye 
cannot see the X-ray as it passes through the room, but the plate will 
catch it, and its light may make a photograph. The rays of light visible 
to the eyes are only the lower ones - the higher ones are far beyond the 
power of the eye to record, and beyond even the range of the most 
delicate instrument there exist rays and waves of light of such high 
vibratory rate as to defy even its power to record. 

Did you ever know that there are sounds unheard by human ears that the 
microphone will catch and magnify? Scientific imagination dreams of 
instruments that will catch the songs of the mite - like insects, and 
magnify them until they can be distinguished. There are waves of 
electricity that may pass through your body, unperceived by you, and yet 
powerful enough to run light electric lights. Listen to the words of 
certain eminent scientists. 

Prof. Elisha Gary, a celebrated scientist and teacher, has said: "There 
is much food for speculation in the thought that there exists sound 
waves that no human ear can hear, and color waves of light that no eye 
can see. The long, dark, soundless space between 40, 000 and 
400,000,000,000,000 vibrations per second, and the infinity of range 
beyond 700,000,000,- 000,000 vibrations per second, where light ceases, 
in the universe of motion, makes it possible to indulge in speculation." 
Prof. Williams, the well-known scientific writer, has said: "There is no 
gradation between the most rapid undulations or trembling that produces 
our sensations of sound, and the slowest of those which give rise to our 
sensations of gentlest warmth. There is a huge gap between them, wide 
enough to include another world of motion, all lying between our world 
of sound and our world of heat and light; and there is no good reason 
whatever for supposing that matter is incapable of such intermediate 
activity, or that such activity may not give rise to intermediate 
sensations, provided that there are organs for taking up and sensitizing 
their movements." 

And, so you see that in the scientific theory of Vibrations, there may 
be found plenty of room for a scientific explanation of all that is 
claimed by adherents of the truth of Mental Influence, without getting 
out of the region of physical science, and without invading the plane of 
metaphysics. And there are many more proofs from the same source, which 
we may touch upon as we proceed. 

There is but one Truth, and it manifests on all planes - the Spiritual; 
the Mental; and the Physical - and manifestations agree and coincide. So 
no Mentalist need fear the test of Physical Science, for each plane will 
bear out the facts and phenomena of the ones below or above it - the 
Three are but varying phases of One. In this little work we shall hug 
close to the plane of Physical Science, because by so doing we will be 
able to make the subject much clearer to many than if we had attempted 
to express the teaching in Metaphysical terms. There is no contradiction 
in the end. Each bit of Truth must dovetail into every other bit, for 
all are parts of the Whole.  

CHAPTER II 
THOUGHT WAVES  

In our last chapter we have seen that Vibration was to be found 
underlying all manifestations of energy, and all forms of matter. We 
also quoted two distinguished scientists whose words showed that there 
were fields of vibratory energy not filled by any known forms of energy, 
the inference being that inasmuch as there are no gaps in nature's 
processes these unknown fields must be occupied by certain forms of 
energy not known as yet to physical science. The teachings of the 
occultists of all lands and ages, as also those of modern Mental 
Science, are to the effect that the Mind, in its manifestation of 
Thought in the brain, generates a form of energy of intensely high 
Vibration, which energy may be, and is, projected in vibratory waves 
from the brains of other persons within its field of influence. 

All students of Mental Influence have noticed the close resemblance that 
is manifested between the phenomena of electrical and magnetic energy on 
the one hand and the phenomena of mental energy on the other. So close 
is the analogy that one may take the proven facts of science relating to 
electrical and magnetic phenomena and confidently proceed with the 
certainty of finding a strikingly close correspondence in the field of 
mental phenomena. And the recognition of this fact is helping the 
workers in the mental field group together the varied phenomena that 
come under their notice, and to work out the theory and practice of 
Mental Influence. 

In the first place, it is now a fact well known and accepted by 
investigators that the generation of Thought and the manifestation of 
Mental States occasions a "burning up" of brain matter, and the 
consequent production of a form of energy of high vibratory power. 
Physiologists recognize this fact, and the textbooks make reference to 
it. Experiments have shown that the temperature of the brain is 
increased in accordance with the intensity of Feeling and Thought, and 
that there is undoubtedly a generation of energy and a consumption of 
brain matter which bears a very close resemblance to the process of the 
generation of electrical energy. And this being conceded, it follows 
that this energy once released must be emanated or sent forth from the 
brain in the manner akin to the emanation of other known forms of 
energy, i.e., in the form of "waves" of vibratory force. Light and Heat 
travel in this way - so do electricity and magnetism - so do the forces 
of Radio-activity. And the investigators of Mental Influence have 
demonstrated by their experiments that there is such a thing as 
Thought-induction, and many other phases of manifestation similar to 
that exhibited by electricity and magnetism. 

Flammarion, the well-known and eminent French scientist, has said on the 
subject. "We sum up, therefore, our preceding observations by the 
conclusion that one mind can act at a distance upon another, without the 
habitual medium of words, or any other visible means of communication. 
It appears to us altogether unreasonable to reject this conclusion if we 
accept the facts. The conclusion will be abundantly demonstrated. There 
is nothing unscientific, nothing romantic in admitting that an idea can 
influence a brain from a distance. The action of one human being upon 
another, from a distance, is a scientific fact, it is as certain as the 
existence of Paris, of Napoleon, of Oxygen, or of Sirius." The same 
authority also states: "There can be no doubt that our physical force 
creates a movement in the either which transmits itself afar like all 
movements in the ether, becomes perceptible to brains in harmony with 
our own. The transformation of a psychic action into an ethereal 
movement, and the reverse, may be analogous to what takes place on a 
telephone, where the receptive plate, which is identical with the plate 
at the other end, reconstructs the sonorous movement transmitted, not by 
means of sound, but by electricity. But these are only comparisons." 

When a Thought or feeling is generated in the mind or brain of a person, 
the energy generated flows forth from the brain of the person in the 
form of waves of mental energy, spreading from the immediate 
neighborhood of the thinker to a distance proportioned to the strength 
of the thought or feeling. These Thought-Waves have the property of 
awakening similar vibrations in the minds of other persons coming within 
their field of force, according to the laws of Mental Influence, which 
law shall be explained in the next chapter. 

As we proceed with our consideration of the subject of Mental Influence, 
in the succeeding chapters, we shall see the many and varied forms of 
manifestation of Thought-Waves. At this point we shall merely view the 
phenomena in a general way. 

Thought-Waves are manifested in a variety of forms and phases. Some are 
the waves emanated from the minds of all thinkers, unconsciously and 
without purpose, and usually without much force. Others are sent forth 
with great force, and travel far, manifesting a degree of influence 
commensurate with the force with which they are projected. Others are 
directed purposely toward certain individuals or places, and travel 
along rapidly in a straight line to the point which they have been 
directed or aimed. Others are sent forth with great strength and power, 
but instead of being directed toward any particular person or place, are 
designed to sweep around in great whirlpools of energy affecting all who 
happen to fall within their field force. 

You will readily understand that there is a great difference between 
Thought-Waves sent forth idly and unconsciously, and without knowledge 
of the underlying laws of Mental Influence, and those projected with a 
full knowledge of the laws governing the phenomena and urged on and 
directed by a powerful Will of the sender. The force is the same, but 
the degree of its power, and the measure of its effects are determined 
by the conditions of its sending force. 

The vibratory force of these Thought-Waves does not cease with the 
sending forth of the wave, but persists for a long time afterward. Just 
as heat in a room persists long after the fire in the stove has been 
extinguished - just as the perfume of the flower exists in a room long 
after the flower has been removed - just as a ray of light travels 
through space for millions of miles, and for centuries after the star 
itself has been blotted out of existence - just as any and all forms of 
vibratory energy persist in manifesting after the initial impulse has 
been withdrawn - so do the vibrations of Thought continue long after the 
thought, yes, long after the brain which sent them forth has passed into 
dust. 

There are many places today filled with the thought-vibrations of minds 
long since passed outside of the body. There are many places filled with 
the strong vibrations of tragedies long since enacted there. Every place 
has an atmosphere of its own, arising from the thought vibrations set in 
motion by the various persons who have inhabited or occupied them. Every 
city has its own mental atmosphere, which has an effect upon persons 
moving into them. Some are lively, some dull, some progressive, some 
old-fogeyish, some moral, some immoral - the result of the character of 
the early settlers and leading spirits of the places. The atmosphere 
affects persons moving into these towns, and either sinks to the general 
level, or else, if strong enough, help to change the mental tone of the 
place. Sometimes a change in conditions brings a large influx of new 
people to the town, and the mental waves of the newcomers tend to bring 
about a marked change in the local mental atmosphere. These facts have 
been noted by many observing people who were, perhaps, not familiar with 
the laws and principles underlying the phenomena. 

Many have of course noticed the differing atmosphere of stores, offices 
and other places of business. Some of such places give one an air of 
confidence and trust; others create a feeling of suspicion and mistrust; 
some convey an impression of active, wide awake management, while others 
impress one as being behind the times and suffering from lack of alert, 
active management. Did you ever stop to think that these different 
atmospheres were caused by the prevailing mental attitudes of those in 
charge of the places? The managers of business places send forth 
Thought-Waves of their own, and their employees naturally falling into 
the pace set for them, sending forth similar vibrations, and before long 
the whole place is vibrating on a certain scale. Let a change in the 
management occur and see what a change soon manifests itself. 

Did you ever notice the mental atmospheres of the houses you happened to 
visit? You may experience and recognize all of the varying notes in the 
mental scale of their occupants. From some thresholds harmony manifests 
itself, while others breathe in harmony as soon as you step over the 
threshold. Some radiate mental warmth, while others seem as cold as an 
iceberg. Think for a moment and recall the various houses or places you 
visit, and see how the mental vibrations of the inmates manifest 
themselves to a visitor. 

The low quarters of our cities, the dens of vice and haunts of 
dissipation vibrate with the character of thought and feeling of those 
inhabiting them. And the weak-willed visitor is thus tempted. And, in 
the same way, certain places are filled with strong, helpful, elevating 
vibrations, which tend to lift up and elevate those coming within their 
circle of influence. Thoughts and Feelings are contagious, by reason of 
the Law of Vibration and Mental Induction. When this law is understood 
the individual is enabled to protect and improve himself. Such Knowledge 
brings Strength.  

CHAPTER III 
MENTAL INDUCTION 

As we stated in the preceding chapter, the phenomena of Mental Influence 
bears a striking analogy to that of the electrical or magnetic energy. 
Not only is this so in the phase of wave motion and transmission, but 
also in the phase of induction, as we shall see presently. In physical 
science the term Induction is used to indicate that quality in a 
manifestation of energy which tends to reproduce in a second object the 
vibrations manifesting in the first object, without direct contact 
between the two bodies. A magnet will induce magnetism in another object 
removed from its space. An electrified object will tend to produce 
similar vibrations in another object by induction, over great spaces. 
Heat waves travel along the ether, and tend to produce heat vibrations 
in objects far removed, notably in the case of the sun and the earth. 
Even sound waves will affect other objects in this way, as in the 
well-known instance of the glass or vase "singing" in response to the 
musical note sounded afar off. In fact, we see and hear by processes 
similar to those described. And in this same manner that Thought-Waves 
carry the vibrations of the mind sending them forth to great distances, 
or lesser ones, tending to set up similar vibrations in the middle of 
other persons within their field force. Thus a person feeling a strong 
degree of anger will pour forth waves of that degree of mental 
vibration, which, coming in contact with the brains of other persons, 
tend to set up a similar feelings or emotions and thus cause the person 
to "feel cross" or "peevish" or even to manifest a similar angry state 
of mind. We all know how easily a fight is started by a very angry 
person in a room sending forth violent vibrations.

One has but to remember the instances of mob violence to see how easily 
the "contagion of hate and anger" spread among people who allow 
themselves to be influenced. And not only is this true of undesirable 
emotions and feelings, but also of desirable ones. The influence of a 
good man who happens to be strong mentally spreads among those around 
him, influencing in them for good. Orators, actors, preachers and 
teachers send forth strong within toll currents, which tend to produce 
mental conditions on the part of their hearers corresponding to the 
feeling held by the mind of the speaker. When you remember how this 
speaker swayed your feelings, or how that actor made you weep with pity, 
shiver with fear, or laugh with joy, you will see how Mental induction 
acts. But not only is this true when we are in the actual presence of 
the person sending out the Thought-Waves, but it is equally true that we 
are influenced by persons far removed from us in space, often without 
their knowledge or intent, although sometimes (in the case of one who 
understands the principal most) with full knowledge and intent. The 
ether with which space is filled carries these Thought-Waves in all 
directions, and the surface of the earth, particularly in the densely 
occupied portions, is filled with these waves. These waves, carrying the 
mental vibrations, coming in contact with each other, tend to set up 
combinations on one hand, or else neutralize each other on the other 
hand. That is to say, if two sets of waves of a similar nature meet 
there is likely to be a combination formed between them just as between 
two chemicals having an affinity for each other. In this way the "mental 
atmosphere" of places, towns, houses, etc., is formed. On the other hand 
if currents of opposing vibrations came in contact with each other, 
there will be manifested a conflict between the two, in which each will 
lose in proportion to its weakness, and the result will be either a 
neutralization of both or else a combination having vibrations of an 
average rate. For instance, if two currents of mental energy meet, one 
being a thought of Love and the other Hate, they will neutralize each 
other if they are equal, or if one is stronger than the other, it will 
persist but robbed of much of its strength.

If it were not for this neutralizing effect we would be largely at the 
mercy of stray currents of thought. Nature protects us in this way, and 
also by rendering us immune to a considerable extent. But nevertheless 
we are affected by these waves to a considerable extent, unless we have 
learned to throw them off by knowledge of the laws and an enforcement of 
them by practice. We all know how great waves of feeling spread over the 
town, city or country, sweeping people off their balance. Great waves of 
political enthusiasm, or War spirits, or prejudice for or against 
certain people, or groups of people, sweep over places and cause men to 
act in a manner that they will afterward regret when they come to 
themselves and consider their acts in cold blood. Demagogues will sway 
them or magnetic leaders who wish to gain their votes or patronage; and 
they will be led into acts of mob violence, or similar atrocities, by 
yielding to these waves of "contagious" thought. On the other hand we 
all know how great waves of religious feeling sweep over a community 
upon the occasion of some great "revival" excitement or fervor.

The effect of these Thought-Waves, so far as the power of induction is 
concerned, of course depends very materially upon the strength of the 
thought or feeling being manifested in the mind sending them forth. The 
majority of persons put but little force into the mental manifestations, 
but here and there is to be found a thinker whose Thought-Waves are 
practically "a stream of living will" and which of course have a very 
strong inductive effect upon the minds of others with whom the waves 
come in contact. But it likewise follows that a number of persons 
thinking along the same lines will produce a great volume of power by a 
combination of their thought currents into great streams of mental 
force. 

Then again there is another feature of the case that we must not lose 
sight of, and that is the Attraction between minds, by virtue of which 
one draws to himself the Thought-Waves of others whose thoughts are in 
accord with his own. The contrary is true, for there is Repulsion 
between the minds of persons and the Thought-Waves of others whose 
thoughts are not in accord with his own. The contrary is true, for there 
is Repulsions between the minds of persons and the Thought-Waves of 
others antagonistic to their thoughts. To quote a well-worn and 
much-used expression to illustrate this truth, "Like attracts Like," and 
"Birds of a Feather flock together." There is ever in operation this 
marvelous law of Attraction and Repulsion of Mental Energy- Persons 
allowing their thoughts to run along certain lines, and permitting the 
feelings to be expressed in certain ways, draw to themselves the 
Thought-Waves and mental influences of others keyed to the same mental 
key-note. And likewise they repel the waves and influences of an 
opposing nature. This is an important fact to remember in one's everyday 
life. Good attracts Good and repels Evil. Evil attracts Evil and repels 
Good. The predominant Mental Attitude serves to attract similar 
influences and to repel the opposing ones. Therefore watch carefully the 
character and nature of your thoughts - cultivate the desirable ones and 
repress the undesirable ones. Verily "As a man thinketh in his heart, so 
is he." 

Some Thought-Waves sent forth with but little strength travel slowly and 
do not proceed very far from their place of emanation, but creep along 
like some smoke or fog, lazily and yielding. Other thoughts charged with 
a greater intensity of desire or will, dart forth vigorously like an 
electric spark, and often travel great distances. The weak Thought-Waves 
do not last a very long time, but fade away or become neutralized or 
dissipated by stronger, forces. But the strong thoughts persist for a 
long time, retaining much of their vitality and energy. 

In the same manner the Thought-Waves of a person will continue to 
vibrate around him wherever he goes, and those coming in contact with 
him will be impressed by the character of his vibrations in this way. 
Some men send forth gloomy vibrations in this way. Some men send forth 
gloomy vibrations, which you feel when you come in contact with them. 
Others radiate good-cheer, courage and happiness, which conditions are 
induced in those with whom they come in contact. Many people will 
manifest these qualities so strongly that one can notice the effect the 
moment such persons enter a room. They carry their atmosphere with them, 
and the same is induced in the minds of others around them. 

In the same way some people carry with them vibrations of Will-Power and 
Masterfulness that beat upon the minds of others, making them feel the 
power of such persons and conquering their own will-power and changing 
their desires. Others manifest a strong power of Fascination or 
Attraction, in a similar manner which tends to draw others to them and 
to their desires and wishes. Not only does this principle operate in the 
phase of general mental atmospheres, but also in the phase of direct 
personal influence. 

All forms of Mental influence operate along the lines of Mental 
induction, as herein described. The principle is the same in all cases 
and instances, although the manner of operation varies according to the 
particular phase of the phenomena manifested. Remember this as we 
proceed, and you will be able to understand the subject much better.  

CHAPTER IV 
MENTAL CONCENTRATION 

The two principal factors in the 
manifestation of Mental Influence, in all of its forms, are what are 
know as (1) Concentration, and (2) Mental Imagining. The first of these 
factors shall be considered in this chapter, the succeeding chapter 
taking up the consideration of the second. "Concentration" is a word 
derived from two Latin words, i.e., "con," a prefix meaning " to;" and 
"centrum," meaning "center" or "fixed central point." The two words 
combined mean, literally, "to bring to a common point; to focus," etc. 
Thus the word "Concentration" is seen to mean, literally, "the act or 
state of bringing to a fixed point or focus. Borrowing an analogous 
illustration from physical science, we readily see that the highest 
forms of energy, force or power are manifested by bringing the force to 
a focus, center, or common point thereby directing to that point the 
entire energy employed, instead of allowing it to become dissipated over 
a larger area. The electricity generated by a battery or dynamo, if 
allowed to diffuse itself over a large surface manifests but a small 
degree of the power that may be obtained from it by compelling it to 
discharge itself from a small point of focus. The same is true regarding 
the power of steam, which manifests great power by being forced to 
discharge itself through a small point or opening instead of being 
permitted to spread itself widely in the air. The same law applies to 
gunpowder, which manifests force by its gases being compelled to escape 
through the small gun-barrel instead of spreading in all directions, 
which it would do if unconfined. Another familiar example is that of the 
sun glass, or "burning-glass," which brings the rays of the sun to a 
common point or focus, greatly intensifying the heat and light by reason 
thereof. The occult masters have ever impressed upon their pupils the 
importance and necessity of acquiring the power of Mental Concentration, 
and all trained and developed occultists have practiced and persevered 
toward this end, the result being that some of them attained almost 
miraculous mental powers and influence. All occult phenomena are caused 
in this way, and all occult power depends upon it. Therefore the student 
of Mental Influence should devote much thought, time and practice to 
this most important branch of the subject. 

It is a fact known to all students of mental phenomena that very few 
persons possess more than a very small degree of concentration. They 
allow their mental forces to become scattered and dissipated in all 
directions, and obtain little or no results from the same. In the degree 
that a man is able to concentrate, so is he able to manifests mental 
power. A man's power of mental concentration is to a great extent his 
measure of greatness. Mental Concentration, in practice, consists of 
focusing the mind upon a given subject, or object, firmly and fixedly, 
and then holding it there for a certain time, fully intent upon its 
object, and not allowing itself to be diverted or attracted from its 
object. It likewise consists in the correlative power of then detaching 
the mind from that subject, or object, and either allowing it to rest, 
or else focusing it upon another object. In other words, it either gives 
undivided attention or else inhibits (or "shuts off") attention from the 
given subject or object. To the reader who has had no experience along 
the lines of Mental Concentration, it may seem like a very easy Mental 
Influence task to focus the mind upon a subject, and then hold it there 
firmly and fixedly. But a little practice will undeceive such a person 
and will bring him to a realizing sense of the difficulty of the task. 
The mind is a very restless thing, and its tendency is to dance from one 
thing to another, darting here and there, soon tiring of continued 
attention, and like a spoiled child, seeking a new object upon which to 
exercise itself .On the other hand, many people allow their minds to 
concentrate (involuntarily) upon whatever may strike their fancy, and, 
forgetting everything else, they give themselves up to the object 
attracting their attention for the moment, often neglecting duties and 
important interests, and becoming day dreamers instead of firm thinkers. 
This involuntary concentration is a thing to be avoided, for it is the 
allowing of the attention to escape the control of the will. The Mental 
Concentration of the occultists is a very different thing, and is solely 
in control of the will, being applied when desirable, and taken off or 
inhibited when undesirable. The trained occultist will concentrate upon 
a subject or object with a wonderful intensity, seemingly completely 
absorbed in the subject or object before him, and oblivious to all else 
in the world. And yet, the task accomplished or the given time expired, 
he will detach his mind from the object and will be perfectly fresh, 
watchful and wide-awake to the next matter before him. There is a 
difference in being controlled by involuntary attention, which is a 
species of self- hypnotizing, and the control of the attention, which is 
an evidence of mastery.   The secret of Mental Concentration lies in the 
control of the Attention. And the control of the Attention lies in the 
exercise of the Will. A celebrated French psychologist has well said: 
"The authority is subject to the superior authority of the Ego. l yield 
it or I withhold it as I please. l direct it in turn to several points. 
l concentrate it upon each point as long as my will can stand the 
effort." Sully says: "Attention may be roughly defined as the active 
self-direction of the mind to any object which presents itself at the 
moment." All of the occult authorities begin teaching their pupils 
Attention as the first step toward Mental Concentration. They instruct 
the pupil to examine some familiar object, and endeavor to see as many 
details as possible in the object. Then after hearing the pupil's 
report, the master sends him back to the task, bidding him seek for new 
details, and so on until at last the pupil has discovered about all 
concerning the object that can be discovered. The next day a new object 
is given to him, and the process is repeated. First simple objects are 
given, and then more complex ones, until at last objects of great 
complexity are easily mastered. In this way not only is the power of 
close observation highly developed, but also the faculty of Attention 
becomes so highly strengthened that the pupil is able to exert the 
greatest amount of Mental Concentration with scarcely the consciousness 
of effort. And such a person then becomes a very giant in the 
manifestation of Mental Influence. For he is able to mold his mind 
"one-pointed," as the Orientals describe it, until he has focused and 
directed a mighty degree of Mental Influence toward the desired object. 
Among the practices imposed upon their pupils by occult masters may be 
named Mathematics, Drawing, Analysis, etc. You will readily see why this 
is. To begin with, Mathematics requires the undivided attention of the 
student - unless he concentrates upon his examples, he will not be able 
to work out their solution. And, according to the principle in Nature 
that "practice makes perfect," and that "exercise develops power,"  the 
practice of the mind along lines requiring voluntary attention and 
mental concentration will inevitably result in the acquirement of the 
mental control and power, which renders possible the strongest 
manifestation of Mental Influence. The person who uses Mental Influence 
must certainly possess the power of focusing the force to a common 
point, in order to manifest the greatest amount of power and influence. 
And that faculty of focusing results from the training of the mind along 
the lines of Concentration. And Concentration arises from the mastery of 
Voluntary Attention. So there you have the whole matter in a nutshell. 
So your first step toward acquiring Mental Influence should be to 
cultivate Voluntary Attention. We might fill page after page with 
exercises designed to strengthen your faculty of Voluntary Attention, 
but what would be the use? The best plan is to set you to work to find 
something upon which to concentrate, for the very search will develop 
attention. Look around you for some object to study in detail. Then 
concentrate your attention upon it until you have seen all there is 
about it to be seen, then take up another object and pursue the practice 
further. Take a page - this page, if you will, and count the number of 
words on it. Then see how many words are required to fill each line, on 
an average, then see how many letters there are in each word, in each 
line, on the whole page. Then go over the page and see if any words are 
misspelled, or if any of the letters are imperfect, etc. In short, get 
acquainted with this page, until you know all about it. Then take up 
another page, and after studying it in the same way, compare the two. 
And so on. Of course this will be very dry and tedious unless you take 
an interest in it. And, remembering just what the exercise is designed 
for may arouse this interest. After practicing this way for a short time 
each day, you will begin to find that you are able to bestow greater 
attention upon objects upon which you are trying to manifest Mental 
Influence. You are developing Concentration, and that is the great 
secret of the use of Mental Influence, and explains the difference in 
its manifestation among men. Think over this.

CHAPTER V 
MENTAL IMAGING 

In our last chapter we called your attention to the first of the two 
principal factors in the manifestation of Mental Influence, namely, 
"Mental Concentration." In the present chapter we shall consider the 
second factor tending to render possible the said manifestation, namely, 
"Mental Imaging." What is known as a "Mental Image, in occultism, is the 
mental creation, in the imagination of a "picture" of the things, events 
or conditions that one desires to be manifested or, materialized in 
actual effect. A moments thought will show you that unless you know 
"just what" you desire, you can take no steps toward attaining it on any 
plane of manifestation. And the more clearly your desires are perceived 
in your imagination, the clearer is the work of proceeding toward the 
realization of that desire. A Mental Image gives you a framework upon 
which to work. It is like the drawing of the architect, or the map of 
the explorer. Think over this for a few moments until you get the idea 
firmly fixed in your mind. And now the same rule holds well on the plane 
in which the manifestation of Mental influence takes place.

The occultist first builds up, in his imagination, a Mental Image or 
Picture of the conditions he wishes to bring about, and then by 
concentrating his influence strongly, instead of in a haphazard way as 
is the case with the majority of people who do not understand the laws 
and principles underlying the manifestations of the forces of mind. The 
Mental Image gives shape and direction to the forces, which is being 
concentrated upon the desired object or subject. It may be compared to 
the image on the glass of the Magic Lantern, through which the focused 
rays of the lamp pass, the result being that a corresponding image is 
reproduced upon the screen or curtain beyond. The analogy is a very 
close one indeed, if we remember that the minds of the majority of 
people are more or less blank screens or curtains upon which play the 
pictures produced there by outside influences, suggestions, 
environments, etc., for very few people realize their individuality, and 
are merely reflections of the thoughts and ideas of other people. An 
eminent authority, Sir Francis Galton, who was one of the leading 
authorities upon psychology of preceding generations, has said on this 
subject: "The free action of a high visualizing faculty is of much 
importance in connection with the higher processes of generalized 
thought. A visual image is the most perfect form of mental 
representation whatever the shape, position and relations of objects to 
space are concerned. The best workmen are those who visualize the whole 
of what they propose to do before they take a tool in their hands.

Strategists, artists of all denominations, physicists who contrive new 
experiments, and in short, all who do not follow routine, have a need 
for it. A faculty that is of importance in all technical and artistic 
occupations, that gives accuracy to our perceptions and justice to our 
generalizations, is starved by lazy disuse instead of being cultivated 
judiciously in such a way as will, on the whole, bring the best return. 
l believe that a serious study of the best way of developing and 
utilizing this faculty, without prejudice to the practice of abstract 
thought in symbols, is one of the many pressing desires in the yet 
unformed science of education." And what Galton has said of the value of 
the use of this faculty of the mind in the affairs of the material 
plane, so it is likewise true of the manifestations on the mental plane. 
You know that the clearer a Mental Picture you possess of anything that 
you want - the better you know just what you want - and the better you 
know the latter, the better able you are to take steps to get it. Many 
people go through life wanting "something," but not really knowing "just 
what" they do want. ls it any wonder that they do not realize or 
materialize their desires any better? And the same thing holds well on 
the plane of manifestation of Mental Influence. If one wishes to
materialize anything by the use of the influence, is he not handicapped 
by a lack of Mental Image of just what he wants to materialize, and is 
he not helped very much by the creation of a mental "pattern" or plan, 
in the shape of a mental picture, through and around which he may direct 
his thought-currents? 

The occultists manifesting the greatest degree of Mental Influence 
acquire by practice this art of creating Mental Images of that which 
they wish to materialize.They train their Imagination in this way until 
the very act of creating the Mental Image acts strongly toward the 
actual material- ization or event, as "actually existing" in their minds 
before they attempt to concentrate their Thought-Waves upon the task of 
accomplishing it. Then the Mental Picture, being completed and standing 
in strong outline, they focus their mental force through it, just as in 
the case of the magic lantern before referred to, and the picture is 
reproduced on the screen of mentality of other people. 

The imagination may be strengthened in many ways, the principle being 
constant and persistent practice. The practice of recalling to the 
memory of scenes previously witnessed, and then whether describing them 
to others or else drawing a rough picture of them will help in this 
matter. Describe to others scenes that you have witnessed, occurrences. 
details of appearances, etc. etc.,  until you are able to reproduce 
mentally the aspects and appearances of the things. Then you may begin 
to draw mental pictures of things desired as if they were being drawn on 
the screen of your mind. See, mentally, the things as actually occurring 
- create a little playhouse of your own, in your mind, and there enact 
the plays that you wish to witness in actual life. When you have 
acquired this, you will be able to project your mental pictures on the 
screen of objectivity in actual life with far greater effect. 

In thinking of this subject, you would do well to remember the 
illustration of the magic lantern, for the figure is a good one, and 
will enable you to carry the idea better in your mind. You see, in 
giving you this suggestion, we are really telling you to form a mental 
picture of the mental magic lantern, using the illustration given - you 
see how much easier it is for you to think of it in this way and how 
much easier it is for you to manifest it in practice. 

Build your Mental Images by degrees, commencing with the general 
outlines, and then filling in the details. Always commence by trying 
simple and easy things, and then working up to the more complex and 
difficult feats. 

And now, I offer a word of warning at this point to all. Do not allow 
your imagination to "run away with you" - do not became a dreamer of 
dreams and a doer of nothing. You must master your imagination and make 
it your servant and not your master. You must make it do your bidding, 
instead of allowing it to dictate to you. 

You will see in the succeeding chapters the important part that Mental 
Imaging plays in the different phases of Mental Influence. Even when we 
do not refer directly to it by name, you will see that the "idea" sought 
to be conveyed by one mind to another - the feeling, desire or mental 
state sought to be transferred from one mind to others - must and does 
depend very materially for strength upon the dearness and completeness 
of the Mental Image held in the mind of the person seeking to do the 
influencing, the "projector" of the Mental Image of his mental magic 
lantern, upon the screen of the minds of others. Carry this principle 
well in mind that you may see its operation in the different forms.  

CHAPTER VI 
FASCINATION 

In this and the next chapter we shall present to you information 
regarding the effect of Mental Influence manifested when there is 
personal contact between the persons using the power and the person 
affected. Then we shall pass on to a consideration of the effect 
produced when the persons are not in direct contact with each other. 
There are two general forms of the direct use of Mental Influence, 
which, although somewhat resembling each other, may still be separated 
into two classes. The first we shall call "Fascination" and the second 
"Hypnotism." 

By Fascination we mean the manifestation of Mental Influence when the 
two persons are together, without passes or the usual hypnotic methods. 
By Hypnotism we mean the use of the power, also, when the two parties 
are together, but accompanied by passes or hypnotic methods. 
Under the head of Fascination are to be found the manifestations 
generally known as "Personal Magnetism,"  "Charming," etc., is quite 
commonly employed, in varying degrees by many persons, often without 
their conscious knowledge of the principles employed. Many persons are 
possessed of the power of Fascination "naturally" and without having 
studied or practiced the principles. Many others, not originally 
possessing the power, have acquired by study and practice the power to 
influence people in this way. For, it must be known, the power may be 
acquired by study and practice just as may any other power of mind and 
body. To some it is easy, to others difficult - but all may acquire a 
very great degree of the power by intelligent study and practice of the 
underlying principles. 

Fascination is one of the oldest forms of the manifestations of Mental 
Influence. It was known to, and employed by, the earliest races of men. 
It is even found among the lower animals that pursue their prey or 
capture their mates by its use. A recent writer on the subject has 
defined the word, used in this connection, as: "Acting upon by some 
powerful or irresistible influence;  influencing by an irresistible 
charm; alluring, exciting, irresistibly or powerfully, charming, 
captivating or attracting powerfully, influencing the imagination, 
reason or will of another in an uncontrollable manner; enchanting, 
captivating or alluring, powerfully or irresistibly." 

As we have just said, this power is observable even among the lower 
animals in some cases. Instances are related by naturalists, which 
scorpions have fascinated other insects, causing them to circle around 
and around until finally the insect would plunge down right within 
striking distance of the scorpion, which would then devour its prey. 
Birds of prey unquestionably fascinate their game, and men who have been 
brought in contact with wild tigers, lions, etc., have testified that 
they felt paralyzed in some manner, their legs refusing to obey their 
will, and their minds seeming to become numbed and stunned. Those who 
have seen a mouse in the presence of a cat will testify to the effect of 
some power exerted by the latter. Birds in the presence of a cat and 
serpents also manifest symptoms of a conquered will. And naturalists 
cite many instances of the employment of this force by birds seeking to 
captivate and charm their mates at the beginning of the season. 
Among men it has been noticed that certain individuals possess this 
power to a great degree. Some of the "great men" of ancient and modem 
times having been so filled with the power that they could manage their 
followers almost as one would move automatons. Julius Caesar had this 
power developed to a great degree, and used it from youth to his last 
days. He was worshipped - almost as a god by his soldiers - who would 
undertake almost any task at his bidding. Napoleon also possessed this 
charm to a wonderful degree. It enabled him to control men with whom he 
came in contact, and to bend them to his will. He rose from a poor 
student to the dignity and power of the Emperor of France. When banished 
to Elba he escaped, and landing in France, alone and unarmed, confronted 
the ranks of the French army drawn up to capture him, and walking 
towards the soldiers compelled the latter to throw down their guns and 
flock to his support. He entered Paris at the head of the great army, 
which had been sent forth to capture him. This is no wild legend, but a 
sober fact of history. And in our own times we see how certain leaders 
of men sweep people before them and move them around like pawns on the 
chessboard of life. 

All of the above mentioned phenomena comes under the head of 
Fascination, and is the result of the emanation of streams of active 
Thought-Waves from the mind of a person, the same being strongly 
concentrated and directed toward those whom the person wishes to affect. 
The person forms a strong thought in his mind and sends it out to the 
others charged with the force of concentrated will, so that the other 
person feels it most strongly and forcibly. The fundamental idea is the 
forming of the thought, and then sending it out to the other person. 
For instance, if you wish a person to like you, you should form in your 
mind this thought: "That person likes me," fixing it in your own mind as 
a fact. Then project to him the concentrated thought, "You like me - you 
like me very much," with an air of assurance and confidence, and the 
other person is bound to feel the effect unless he or she has acquired a 
knowledge of the subject and is using self-protection. The thought 
should be sent forth with the strength that usually accompanies a strong 
spoken statement, but you must not actually "speak" the words aloud - 
you should merely say them strongly "in your mind." 
If you wish to produce an effect or impress Strength upon another 
person, the same process may be used, changing the Thought and 
vibrations to the idea that you have a stronger Will than the other 
person, and are able to overcome his Will - using the silent message of 
"I am Stronger than you - my Will overcomes yours," 
Some successful agents and salesmen use the following method in reaching 
their customers. They form a thought that the other person desires their 
goods very much, and then they send out the Thought-Waves that "You 
desire my goods - you want them very much - you have an irresistible 
longing for them," etc. 

Others use the following when they wish another to comply with their 
wishes: "You will do as I say - will do as I say - you will yield to me 
fully and completely," etc. 

You will readily see from the above examples that the whole principle 
employed in any and all of these cases consists of: 

(1) The Thought of what the person wishes the other to do held firmly in 
the mind; and 

(2) The projection of that Thought to the other, silently, in the shape 
of unspoken words. 

In the above you have the whole secret of Fascination condensed to a 
small space. You will understand of course, that the words are only a 
means of concentrating and vitalizing the thought. Animals merely feel 
Desires, but are able to fascinate by the strength of them, although 
they cannot use words. And one person may fascinate another without 
understanding a word of his language, the real strength coming from the 
strength of the desire behind the words. The formation of the 
desire-thought into words, is merely for the purpose of concentrating 
and focusing the thought, for words are concentrated symbols of ideas, 
thoughts or feelings. 

The exact process of "sending forth" the Thought-Wave to the other is 
difficult to describe. You know how you feel when you say something very 
forcible and emphatic to another person. You can fairly "feel" the force 
of the words being hurled at the other person. Well, cultivate that same 
power in sending forth the "unspoken word" in the above manner, and you 
will soon be able to notice the effect of the thought on the other. It 
may help you to imagine that you can see the force flying from you to 
the other. The imagination properly used helps very much in these 
matters, for it creates a mental path over which the force may travel. 
You must not act awkwardly when sending out the Thought-Waves, but 
converse in an ordinary manner, sending your Thought-Waves between your 
speeches, when the other person is talking to you, or at any pause in 
the conversation. It is always well to send first a powerful 
Thought-Wave before the conversation is opened, preferably while you are 
approaching the person. And it is likewise well to terminate the 
interview with a "parting shot" of considerable strength. You will find 
that these Thought-Waves are of far greater power than spoken words, and 
then again, you can in this way send out impressions that you could not 
utter in spoken words for obvious reasons. 

And now do you see how you have been affected by persons who have 
influenced you at times in your past life? Now that you know the secret 
you will be in a measure immune from further impressions from others. 
And when you read our concluding chapter, entitled "Self-Protection," 
you will be able to surround yourself with a protective armor through 
which the Thought-Waves cannot penetrate, but which will turn aside the 
shafts directed toward you.  

CHAPTER VII
HYPNOTIC INFLUENCE 

As we have mentioned in the previous lesson, there is a general 
resemblance between the manifestation of Mental Influence, known as 
"Fascination," and that known as Hypnotic Influence. In the 
manifestation known as Fascination, the influence is exerted solely by 
Thought- Waves passing from mind to mind without a physical medium or 
channel other than the ether. In Hypnotic Influence, on the contrary, 
the influence is heightened by means of passes, stroking or eye 
influence. 

In Hypnotic Influence the mind of the person affected, whom we shall 
call the "subject," is rendered passive by a flow of mental energy 
calculated to render it more or less drowsy or sleepy, and therefore 
less calculated to set up powers of resistance to the Thought-Waves of 
the person using the influence. But the power employed is the same in 
all cases, no matter whether they fall under the classification of 
Fascination or whether that of Hypnotic Influence. The two classes of 
manifestation, as a matter of fact, really blend into each other, and it 
is difficult to draw a dividing line in some cases. 

Hypnotic Influence is a form of that which was formerly termed 
Mesmerism, which name was given to it in honor of its discoverer, 
Frederick Anton Mesmer, who practiced this form of Mental Influence 
during the latter half of the Eighteenth Century. As a fact, however, 
the force and its use was known to the ancients centuries before 
Mesmer's time, the latter person having merely rediscovered it. 
Mesmer taught that the power was based upon the presence of a strange 
universal fluid which pervaded everything, and which had a peculiar 
effect upon the nerves and brains of people. He and his followers 
believed that it was necessary to put the subjects into a sound sleep 
before they could be influenced. But both of these ideas have given way 
to the new theories on the subject now held by investigators and 
students of the subject. 

It is now known that the "magnetic fluid" believed in by Mesmer and his 
followers is nothing else than the currents of Thought-Waves emanating 
from the mind of the operator. And it is also known that the "deep 
sleep" condition is not necessary to render the will of the subject 
subservient to that of the operator. It is also now known that the 
nerves of the arms and fingers afford a highly sensitive conductor for 
the mental currents, which may be propelled over them to the mind of the 
subject, or to his nerves and muscles. This fact is explained by the 
well-known scientific fact that the material of which the nerves are 
composed is almost identical with that of the brain - in fact the 
nervous system may be spoken of as a continuation of the brain itself. 
It is now also known that the eye has a peculiar property of 
transmitting the mental currents along the rays of light entering it and 
from thence to the eyes of the other person. The above fact explains the 
phenomena of hypnotic influence, as it is now known to science. The 
question of "Suggestion" also has a bearing on the subject, as we shall 
see presently. 

Modern operators do not produce the "deep sleep" condition usually 
except in cases when it is desired to produce some form of psychic 
phenomena apart from the subject of Mental Influence - that is, in which 
they are merely inducing the deep hypnotic condition in order to get the 
subject into a psychic condition in which the phenomena mentioned may be 
manifested or exhibited. We shall not enter into this phase of the 
subject in this book, for it is outside of the immediate subject. The 
modem hypnotic investigator merely induces a passive state in the mind, 
nerves or muscles of the subject sufficient to reduce the powers of 
resistance, and then he gives his orders or "verbal suggestions" 
accompanied by a projection of his Thought-Waves into the mind of the 
subject. 

In order to illustrate the subject, we will give you a few experiments, 
which may be easily performed by anyone manifesting the power of 
concentration and thought-projection. There is of course a great 
difference in the degrees of impressionability of different persons to 
hypnotic influence - that is to say, difference in degrees of 
resistance. Some persons will interpose a strong resistance, while 
others will set up a very feeble resistance, which is easily beaten down 
by the will of the operator. In the following experiments you had better 
begin by getting some person who is perfectly willing for the 
experiment, and who will not interpose a resistance but who is willing 
to become passive. Some person friendly to you and interested in the 
experiments, we mean. 

Begin by having the person stand before you. Then make sweeping passes 
in front of the person from head to foot. Then make a few passes in 
front of the face of the subject, then along his arms. Then take hold of 
his hands and hold them a little while, looking him straight in the 
eyes. Make all passes downward. Avoid levity or laughter and maintain a 
serious, earnest expression and frame of mind. 

Then standing in front of the subject tell him to take his will off of 
his legs and stand perfectly passive and relaxed. Then looking him 
straight in the eyes, say to him: "Now, I am going to draw you forward 
toward me by my mental power - you will feel yourself falling forward 
toward me - don't resist but let yourself come toward me - I will catch 
you, don't be afraid - now come - come - come - now you're coming, 
that's right," etc. You will find that he will begin to sway toward you 
and in a moment or two will fall forward in your arms. It is unnecessary 
to say that you should concentrate your mind steadily upon the idea of 
his falling forward, using your will firmly to that effect. It will help 
matters if you hold your hands on each side of his head, but just in 
front of him, not touching him, however, and then draw away your hands, 
toward yourself, saying at the same time: "Come now come - you're 
coming," etc. Standing behind the subject and drawing him backward may 
reverse this experiment. Be sure and catch him in your arms when he 
fails to protect him from a fall to the floor. 

In the same manner you may fasten his hands together, telling him that 
he cannot draw them apart. Or you may start him revolving his hands, and 
then giving him orders that he cannot stop them. Or you may draw him all 
around the room after you, following your finger that you have pointed 
at his nose. Or you may make him experience a feeling of heat and pain 
by touching your finger to his hand and telling him that it is hot. All 
of the familiar simple experiments may be performed successfully upon a 
large percentage of persons, in this way, by following the above general 
directions. We shall not go into detail of the higher experiments of 
Hypnotism, as that forms a special subject by itself. We give the above 
experiments merely for the purpose of showing you that the phenomena of 
Hypnotic Influence does not require any "magnetic fluid" theory, and is 
all explainable upon the hypothesis of Mental Influence by means of 
Thought- Waves and Mental Induction. 

In the above experiments, be sure you "take off' the influence 
afterward, by making upward passes, and willing that the influence pass 
off. Do not neglect this. 

In your experiments, if you care to undertake them, you will soon 
discover the power of your eye upon the other persons. You will be able 
to almost feel the force passing from your gaze to theirs. And this is 
true in the case of the passes and stroking of the hands. You will feel 
the vibratory waves flowing from your hands into their nervous system. 
It is wonderful what power is aroused in a person after conducting a few 
experiments along these lines. Those who care to follow the subject 
further are referred to a forthcoming book of this series, to be issued 
shortly, and which will be called "The New Hypnotism," in which full 
instructions will be given in the higher phenomena, in complete detail. 
And now a word of warning - Beware of people who are always putting 
their hands on you, or patting or stroking you, or wishing to hold your 
hands a long time. Many persons do this from force of habit, and 
innocently, but others do so with the intention of producing a mild form 
of hypnotic influence upon you. If you meet such persons, and find them 
attempting anything of this sort, you can counteract their influence by 
sending them a strong thought current (as stated in our last chapter), 
sending them the thought: "You can't affect me - I am too strong for you 
- you can't play your tricks on me." It is a good plan to practice this 
counteracting force when you are shaking hands with a "magnetic" person 
who seems to affect people. You will soon be able to distinguish these 
people by a certain force about them and a peculiar expression in their 
eyes, at the same time using your protective will upon them. 

Caution young girls against allowing young men to be too free in using 
their hands in caressing them, and a word of advice to young men in your 
family would not be out of place in this respect. There are many cases 
of sex-attraction, leading to very deplorable results, arising from a 
conscious or unconscious use of this simple form of Hypnotic Influence. 
The danger lies in the fact that it renders one passive to other 
influences, and more readily led into temptation and to yield to the 
desires or will of the other person. A word to the wise should be 
sufficient. The use of this power for immoral purposes is a terrible 
crime and brings down upon the user deplorable results, which all 
occultists know and teach. Everyone should learn to resist such 
influences when exerted upon them. Forewarned is Forearmed.

CHAPTER VIII 
INFLUENCING AT A DISTANCE 

In the two preceding chapters we invited your consideration of the 
manifestation of Mental Influence when the user or projector of the 
force was in actual contact with, or in presence of, the person or 
persons he was aiming to influence. In this chapter, and the one 
immediately following it, we shall pass on to a consideration of the 
manifestation of the influence when the persons affected are removed in 
space from the person using the influence. 

The general public is familiar in a general way with the phenomena of 
hypnotism. and to a lesser degree with the phenomena of Fascination in 
its more common forms of personal Magnetism, etc. But as regards the use 
of the influence at a distance people are more or less skeptical owing 
to a lack of knowledge of the subject. And still every day is bringing 
to the mind of the public new facts and instances of such an influence. 
and the teaching of various cults along these lines is now awakening a 
new interest in the subject, and a desire to learn something regarding 
the laws and principles underlying the same. 

As strange as it may appear at first glance, the principles underlying 
Mental Influence at a distance are precisely the same as those 
underlying the use of influence when the persons are in the presence of 
each other. A little thought must show the truth of this. In the case of 
present influence the mental-currents flow across an intervening space 
between the two minds - there is a space outside of the two minds to be 
traversed by the currents. And a moment's thought will show you that the 
difference between present influence and distant influence is merely a 
matter of degree - a question of a little more or less space to be 
traversed by the currents. Do you see this plainly? 

Well, then, this being so, it follows that the methods used must be 
identical. Of course, in the case of personal influence the added effect 
of the voice, manner, suggestive methods, the eye, etc., are present, 
which render the result more easily obtained, and causes the "rapport" 
condition to be more easily established. But with this exception the 
methods are identical, and even the advantages accruing from the 
exception mentioned may be duplicated by practice and development in the 
case of distant influence. 

There are a number of methods given by the authorities in this matter of 
distant influencing, but they are all based upon the same principles 
named in the previous chapters of this book, i.e. Vibrations, 
Thought-Waves, Mental Induction, Concentration and Mental Imaging - in 
these words you have the key to the subject - the rest is all a matter 
of practice and development, and variation. 
One of the most elementary, and yet one of the most effective methods 
known to occultists is that of creating a Mental Image of the person 
"treated" (for that is the common term among modern writers on the 
subject) in the sense of imagining him to be seated in a chair in front 
of the person treating him at a distance. The treater proceeds to give 
both verbal commands, and at the same time directs Thought-Waves toward 
the imaginary person seated before him. This process establishes a 
psychic condition between the treator and the actual person, although 
the latter may be removed from the treator by many miles of space. This 
was the method of the ancient magicians and wonder-workers, and has 
always been a favorite among persons pursuing these experiments, of 
desirous, of mentally influencing others at a distance. 

A variation of the above, very common in former days, was to mold a clay 
or wax figure, calling it by the name of the person treated, and 
identifying it in the mind and imagination with the other person. A 
variation is also noticed in the cases where a photograph, lock of hair, 
article of clothing, etc., is used in this way as a psychic connecting 
link between the two persons. The practitioners of Black Magic, 
Witchcraft and of her nefarious perversions of Mental influence seemed 
to prefer these methods, although, on the contrary, they are used with 
the very best results today by many in giving beneficial treatments to 
absent patients, friends and others whose welfare is desired. The only 
effect the Mental Image of the person, or the picture, etc., has is the 
fact that by these means a psychic connection link is set up along which 
the Thought- Waves travel more readily. 

In the above forms of treatment the treator treats the Mental Image, 
picture, etc., precisely as he would if the person were actually 
present. He forgets for the time being that the person may be hundreds 
of miles away, and concentrates his influence on the image, or picture, 
etc., because the latter is really the starting point of the psychic 
chain, which leads direct to the person. The treator sends his 
Thought-Waves toward the object, and in some cases actually talks 
(mentally) to the person by means of the medium mentioned. He may give 
commands, arguments, remonstrance, persuasion, etc., just as if the 
person were actually present. In short, he acts as if the person were 
sitting before him, wide-awake, and receptive to his influence. 
Another way, employed by some, is to begin darting Thought-Waves toward 
the other person, forming in the imagination a gradual lengthening 
"psychic-wire" composed of thought- vibrations. Those practicing this 
form state that when the psychic-wire is projected sufficiently far (and 
it travels with incredible speed) and comes in contact with the mind of 
the other person, the treator feels at once that contact has been 
established by a peculiar faint "shock" similar to that of a very mild 
galvanic current. Then the treator proceeds to send his thought-currents 
along the psychic-wire in the same manner as if the person were actually 
in his presence, as described under the head of "Fascination, in a 
preceding chapter. In fact, such treatments, and the others mentioned in 
this chapter, are really and practically "long distance Fascination." 
Another form of distant treatment consists in forming an "astral-tube," 
mentioned in other books in this series. The astral-tube is set up in a 
similar manner to the "psychic-wire," and projected toward the person 
desired to influence. It is formed in the imagination as a 
"vortex-ring," similar to the little ring of smoke puffed out by the 
cigar smoker, only larger - about six inches to one foot wide - or, 
better still, like the ring of smoke ejected from the stack of a 
locomotive sometimes when it is puffing rapidly. This vortex-ring is 
then seen, in the imagination, by the use of the will, to lengthen out 
in the shape of a tube which rapidly extends and travels toward the 
person treated, in a manner identical with that of the psychic-wire. 
This tube is known to occultists as the "astral-tube," and is employed 
in various forms of occult and psychic phenomena, such as clairvoyance 
and other forms of "Psychomancy," as described by us in our volume of 
this series, so entitled. Those following this method of distant 
influencing report that they recognize the completion of the tube by a 
sensation of stoppage and a feeling of "rapport" having been established 
between themselves and the other person. In some cases they report that 
they are able to faintly "see" the figure of the other person in 
miniature at the other end of the tube, but this is undoubtedly due to 
the possession of "psycho-mantic" powers, suddenly awakened in to 
effect. The tube once established the treatment is proceeded with as if 
they were in the actual presence of the person treated. In many respects 
the "psychic-wire" and the "astral-tube" methods are similar, and a 
statement concerning one is generally true of the other. 

There are two other methods frequently used in distant influencing which 
we shall now briefly describe. 

The first of these two methods consists in sitting or standing in a 
quiet place, or rather in some place in which you can concentrate (the 
advanced occultist can find peace in the midst of the noise) and then 
directing your Thought-Waves toward the other person, forming in the 
imagination a mental picture of the force flying from you toward the 
other, like tiny sparks of electricity, or of a subtle fluid. This 
mental picture tends to give a concentrative force to the current, which 
renders them powerful, and sends them direct to the desired spot. 
The second of these two methods is that used by the most advanced 
occultists who have advanced beyond the use of the methods described 
just now. These people simply stand or sit quietly and concentrate their 
minds until they attain the state of Mental Calm known to many as "the 
Silence." Then they create a strong mental picture of the person 
treated, surrounded by the conditions desired created, or doing the 
things desired to be done. This is one of the highest forms of Mental 
Influence and really approaches a higher phase of influence than that of 
the mental plane as generally known. A picture of a person held in the 
mind in this way - the person being seen in perfect, robust health, and 
happy and successful - tends to materialize the same conditions in the 
person in real life. This form of treatment, however, is possible only 
to those of great concentration, and who have mastered the act of Mental 
Imaging, and who also possess Creative Will-Power to a marked degree. 
Some degree of success in it, however, is open to nearly every student 
who practices along these lines. 

Before practicing any of these experiments, read what we have said in 
the chapter on "Magic Black and White, and guard against employing the 
power for evil purposes, for the fate of the Black Magician is a sad 
one. 

CHAPTER IX
INFLUENCING "EN MASSE" 

In our last chapter we considered the manifestation of Mental Influence 
at a distance in so far as was concerned the influencing of one or more 
persons by another. There is another phase of the subject that must not 
be overlooked, and that is the influencing of large numbers of people by 
some active, strong projector of Mental Influence. This form of the 
manifestation of the power is known as "Mental Influencing En Masse" - 
"En Masse, of course, means "in a boddy" - or "in a crowd," and Mental 
Influencing En Masse means the use of the influence in the phase of 
exerting a strong attracting or directing power to the mind of "the 
crowd," or rather, "the public, or a large number of people. 

This form of the use of the power is that consciously or unconsciously 
exerted by the great leaders of men in the fields of statesmanship, 
politics, business, finance or military life. You will at once recall a 
number of the so called "great men" of history from ancient times down 
to our own times who seemed to exert a wonderfully, almost miraculous, 
effect upon the minds of the people, causing men to see things through 
the eyes of the strong man, and making of all instruments to carry out 
the ideals, will or desires of these great masters of Mental Influence. 
And on a smaller scale are the majority of the successful people who 
depend upon public support. In fact, this influence in some degree is 
used by nearly all who succeed in any form of business or profession, in 
which success calls for the attraction of other people toward the 
occupation of the person in question. This may seem like a strange 
thought to many, but occultists know it as the truth, notwithstanding. 
The most common form of Influencing En Masse is the lesser degree 
manifestation, along unconscious lines, manifested by a majority of 
people by reason of their desire for the success of certain things. By 
desire we do not mean the mere "wanting" or "wishing" state of mind, but 
rather that eager longing, craving, demanding mental state that evinces 
a hungry reaching out for the desired thing. You will notice that the 
men and women who "get things" are generally those who are possessed of 
a strong, burning desire for the things in question, which prompts them 
to be more of less aggressive in the search for satisfaction of the 
desire possessing them. These people are constantly sending out strong 
waves of thought-vibrations, which has a drawing, attracting influence 
upon all with whom they come in contact, and tending to draw such 
persons toward the center of attraction, which is, of course, the mind 
of the person sending out such thoughts. And in the same way a person 
possessed of a strong Fear of a thing will send out similar attracting 
waves, which have a tendency to attract or draw to him the people 
calculated to bring about the materialization of the thing feared. This 
may sound paradoxical, but the secret lies in the fact that in both the 
case of Desire and Fear the mind forms the Mental Image, which tends to 
become materialized. Fear, after all, is a form of "expectation," which, 
alas, too, often tends to materialize it." The thing that I have feared, 
hath come upon me," says Job, and in that saying he has stated the 
experience of the race. The way to fight things you may fear is to 
create a burning desire for the opposite thing. 

Other persons who have either studied the principles of Mental 
Influence, or else have stumbled upon certain facts concerning the same, 
improve upon this elementary form of Influencing En Masse just 
mentioned. They send out the Thought-Waves consciously and deliberately, 
erecting the mental image, and holding strongly to it, so that in time 
their sweeps of mental currents reach further and further away and bring 
a greater number of people under the influence and into the field of 
attraction. They "treat" the public "en masse" by holding the strong 
mental picture of that which they desire, and then sending out strong 
thought-currents of desire in all directions, willing that those coming 
within their radius shall be attracted toward the ideas expressed in the 
Mental image projected in all directions. 

The constant dwelling upon some special object or subject, by men who 
have developed concentration, strong wills and fixity of purpose, has 
the effect of sending out from the mind of that person great circles, 
constantly widening, of Thought-Waves, which sweep ever outward like 
waves in a pond caused by dropping in a stone. These waves reach and 
affect a great number of people, and will render them at least 
"interested" in the object or subject thought of, and the indifference 
has been overcome. Other appeals to the minds of these people will be 
far more likely to reach them than otherwise, for "interest" is the 
first step toward attention, and attention is another step toward 
action. 

Of course, there are very many people sending out circles of 
Thought-Waves, and these currents come in contact with each other and 
tend to neutralize each. But now and then a particularly strong man will 
send out waves that will persist even after meeting other currents, and 
will reach the minds of the public in spite of the opposition. These 
thought-currents have the personality of the sender, and reflect the 
character of his will, be it strong or weak. The Mental Influence sent 
out by a strong business man in a town will soon make itself felt in a 
subtle manner, and the store becomes a center of attractive influence, 
although the public does no understand just why. In the same way some 
lawyers spring into public favor, although not possessing greater 
ability than their legal brethren. And popular preachers make their 
influence felt in a community in similar ways, although often they are 
not conscious of just what force they are using, their only knowledge 
being that they have a feeling of inward strength and an attractive 
influence over people, and at the same time a burning ardent desire to 
draw people their way, and a strong will to back it up with. And these 
are just the mental qualities that create and manifest the strongest 
kind of Mental Influence. And besides, these people almost invariably 
"know just what they want" - there is no mere vague "wishing" about them 
- they make a clear mental picture of the things that they wish to bring 
about, and then they bend every effort toward materializing the picture. 
Everything they do towards accomplishing their ends gives an additional 
impetus to their constantly widening and constantly strengthening circle 
of power and influence. 

Some masters of this art of influencing the public create a mental 
picture of themselves sending out great volumes of Thought-Waves for a 
time, and then afterward mentally imparting a rotary motion to the 
waves, until at last they form a mental whirlpool rushing round and 
round and always sucking in toward the center. An effort of this kind 
acts on the mental plane just as a physical whirlpool acts on the 
physical plane, that is it draws into its power all that comes in 
contact with its force. This is one of the most powerful forms of 
Influencing En Masse, and is used with great effect by many of the 
"strong men" of this age; who have acquainted themselves fully with the 
secrets of the ancient occultists. Ancient Occultism and Modern Finance 
seem far apart, but they are really working together to further the 
interests of some of these powerful minds of the day - and the public is 
paying  the bill. 

You will readily see from what has been said that an individual who has 
cultivated the faculty of concentration and has acquired the art of 
creating sharp, clear, strong mental images, and who when engaged in an 
undertaking will so charge his mind with the idea of success, will be 
bound to become an attracting center. And if such an individual will 
keep his mental picture ever in his mind, even though it may be in the 
background of his mind, when he is attending to the details and planning 
of his affairs - if he will give his mental picture a prominent place in 
his mental gallery, taking a frequent glance at it, and using his will 
upon it to create new scenes of actual success, he will create for 
himself a center of radiating thought that will surely be felt by those 
coming within its field of influence. 

Such a man frequently "sees" people coming to him and his enterprises 
and falling in line with his plans. He mentally "sees" money flowing in 
to him, and all of his plans working out right. In short, he mentally 
imagines each step of his plans a little ahead of the time for their 
execution and he concentrates forcibly and earnestly upon them. It is 
astonishing to witness how events, people, circumstances and things seem 
to move in place in actual life as if urged by some mighty power to 
serve to materialize the conditions so imaged in the mind of the man. 
But, understood, there has got to be active mental effort behind the 
imaging. Daydreamers do not materialize thought - they merely dissipate 
energy. The man who converts thought in activity and material being, 
throws energy into the task and puts forth his willpower through the 
picture on the slide. Without the rays of the will there will be no 
picture projected, no matter how beautifully the imagination has 
pictured it. Thoughts pictured in mental images and then vitalized by 
the force of the desire and will tend to objectify themselves into 
material beings, That is the whole thing in a nutshell. 

CHAPTER X 
THE NEED OF THE KNOWLEDGE 

Although the true scientific principles underlying the subject of Mental 
Influence have been but recently recognized and taught to the general 
public, still the knowledge is far from being new. The occultists of the 
old civilizations undoubtedly understood the underlying principles and 
used them in practice, thus gaining an ascendancy over the masses. And 
more than this, the masses themselves had a more or less comprehensive 
knowledge of the working principles of the subject, for we find among 
all peoples, in all times, records of the use of this power. Under one 
name or another - under one form or another - Mental Influence has been 
operated and used from the earliest times. And today, even in the most 
remote portions of the globe, and among the most savage and barbarous 
races we find instances of the employment of this force. The forms of 
the manifestation of Mental Influence are many and varied. In some cases 
it manifests under the form of a fascinating, attracting power exerted 
by some people, which causes such persons to draw or attract other 
persons to them. Persons are allured or "charmed" by others possessing 
this power, and their affections are taken captive by this mysterious 
force. Some persons are spoken of as "fascinating," "possessing powers 
of charming," having "winning ways," having "great personal magnetism," 
etc. Others exert another form of the power in the driving of and 
compelling others to do their bidding, and people speak of them as 
having "a compelling will," being able "to work their will" on those 
around them, possessing "dominating powers," etc. We are also brought 
face to face with the wonderful effects of "Mental Science" under one 
form or another, under this name or that term, with the many forms of 
"treatments" followed by the different schools and cults. Then we read 
in the pages of history about the mysterious powers recorded under the 
name of Witchcraft, Hexes, Voodoo's, and Black Magic, including the 
Hawaiian "Kahuna" work. And turning back the pages of history to Ancient 
time, Greece, Persia and Egypt, not to speak of India, ancient and 
modern, we find innumerable instances of the employment of, and 
knowledge of, Mental influence in some of its forms.   And although many 
will seek to deny the fact, scientific investigators and students 
realize that there is but one real underlying principle under and back 
of all of the various forms of manifestation. The good results, and the 
evil results, all arise from the employment of the same force, strange 
as it may appear at first thought. The secret lies in the fact that this 
Mental Influence is a great natural force, just as is electricity or any 
other natural forces, and it may be, and is, used for both good and evil 
purposes. The electricity which runs out machines, lights our houses and 
performs countless other beneficent tasks in the service of man is also 
used to electrocute criminals, and the unfortunate person who touches a 
"live wire" may be struck with instant death. The sun, which warms our 
earth and renders life possible, also kills countless persons exposed to 
its rays on the desert, or even in our large cities. Fire, that great 
friend of man, which has been one of the most potent factors in the 
evolution of the race from barbarism to civilization, is also a mighty 
enemy, destroying both property and lives. Water, that most necessary 
element, which renders life possible, and which is necessary to grow our 
grain and to perform countless other good services for us, also acts as 
an enemy at times, drowning people and sweeping away their homes. 
Gravitation, which holds all things in place, from suns and stars down 
to the tiniest atom of matter, also causes people to fall to their death 
from high places, or brings down on their heads objects from above them. 
In short, every natural force or power is capable of producing either 
beneficent or baleful effects to man, according to the circumstances of 
the case. We recognize these things, and accept them as a law of nature. 
And yet some would deny the identity of the power of Mental influence as 
manifested in its good and bad uses. There will be people who ascribe to 
God all the good qualities of Mental Influence, and ascribe to the Devil 
all of its evil uses. These people have primitive minds. Their 
counterparts are seen in those who would credit God with the helpful 
rain or sun, and who ascribe to the Devil the same things when there 
occurs a flood or a drought. Such reasoning is worthy only of the savage 
mind. The forces are natural forces, and work according to their own 
laws, imminent in their constituent qualities and nature, and are in 
that sense "above good and evil." When they work for man's interest and 
comfort man calls them "good" - when they work harm and discomfort to 
him man call them "bad" - but the force remains unchanged, being neither 
"good" nor "bad." And thus it is with the power of Mental Influence - it 
is above "good" and "bad"  - it is a great natural force, capable of 
being used for either wear or woe to mankind. But, remember this, there 
is a difference. While the force in itself is neither good nor bad the 
individual who employs it may be, and it is, "good" or "bad," according 
to its use. Just as a man commits a good or bad act when he uses his gun 
to slay a wild beast attacking another man, or else turns it upon his 
brother or neighbor, as the case may be - so is a man good or bad 
according to his use of Mental Influence. The merit or demerit lies in 
the intention and purpose of the user, not in the force or power 
employed by him. Therein lies the difference. On all sides of us we may 
see the manifestation of the possession of Mental Influence. We see men 
who are able to sway those around them in some mysterious and wonderful 
way, either by their powers of persuasion of by their dominant will 
power. Some spring into prominence and power suddenly, in a way 
unaccountable to those who are ignorant of the secret of Mental 
Influence. As we have said in a previous chapter, certain people seem to 
have "something about them" that makes them attractive or successful in 
their relations with other people. The "personal magnetism" of leaders 
manifests itself strongly, some having this power to such an extent that 
the masses follow them like a great flock of sheep after the 
"bell-whether" with the tinkling bell around his neck. We have all come 
in contact with the "agent" or salesman who managed in some way to sell 
us things that we did not want and had no use for, and after he had gone 
we wondered and wondered how it all happened. If we had but understood 
the laws of Mental Influence this could not have happened. We have all 
felt ourselves, at some time or another in our lives, in the presence of 
individuals who almost compelled us to do what we knew in our hearts we 
should not do. Knowledge of the laws of Mental influence would have 
enabled us to overcome the temptation. And not only in the case of 
personal interviews have we been affected. There is a far more subtle 
and dangerous use of the power, i.e., in the shape of "distant 
influence," or "absent treatment," as it had been called. And the 
increase in the interest and knowledge of Occult matters during the past 
twenty years has resulted in a widely diffused knowledge of this great 
force, and its consequent employment, worthily and unworthily, by many 
people who are thereby enabled to gain an influence over their neighbors 
and fellow men, who are not familiar with the laws of the force. It 
would surprise many people if they knew that some of the 
multi-millionaires of the country, and some of its greatest politicians 
and leaders, were secret students of Occultism, and who were using their 
forces upon the masses of the people. Not only this, but there are 
Schools of Occultism which teach their pupils the theory, practice and 
art of Mental Influence, under one name or another - under this guise or 
that - the result being that there are a greater number of people 
equipped for the use of this force and instructed in the practice of 
employing it turned out every year than is generally imagined. There are 
Schools for Salesmanship giving disguised instruction in the art of 
Mental Influence. Nearly every large concern employing selling agents 
has private instructors for their men, who teach them the principles of 
Mental Influence disguised under the name of "Psychology of Business," 
or some such name. And besides these, there are a number of people who 
have studied at the feet of some of the great metaphysical, 
semi-religious cults of the day, who have received instruction in Mental 
influence disguised under the name of some creed or religious teachings, 
who have departed from the moral principles inculcated by their by their 
teachers, and who are using their knowledge in the shape of "treatments" 
of other persons for the purpose of influencing them to accede to their 
wishes or to act so as to bring financial gain to the person giving the 
treatment. The air is full of this Black Magic today, and it is surely 
time that the general masses were instructed on this subject. And this 
is the purpose of this little book, published and sold at a popular 
price in order to bring it within the reach of the purses of the "plain 
people," who have been exploited and influenced by those who have 
acquired a knowledge of the principles of Mental Influence, and who are 
using it unworthily upon their fellow men. There is self protection 
possible to all, and this little book purposes to teach you how to use 
it.

CHAPTER XI
MAGIC BLACK AND WHITE 

The use of the word "Magic" in connection with Mental Influence is quite 
ancient. Occultists make a clear distinction between the use of Mental 
Influence in a manner conducive to the welfare of others, and its use in 
a selfish, base manner calculated to work harm on others. Both forms are 
common and are frequently mentioned in all occult writings. 

White Magic has many forms, both in its ancient manifestations and in 
these latter days of revived occult knowledge. The use of Mental 
Influence in this way generally takes the form of kindly "treatments" of 
persons by others having their welfare at heart. In this particular 
class fall the various treatments of the several cults and schools of 
what is known as Mental Science, or similar names. These people make a 
practice of giving treatments, both "present" and "absent," for the 
purpose of healing physical ailments and bringing about a normal 
Physical condition of health and strength. Similar treatments are given 
by some to bring about a condition of Success to others, by imparting to 
the minds of such persons the vibrations of courage, confidence, energy, 
etc., which surely make for success along the lines of material 
occupation, etc. 

in the same way one may "treat" adverse conditions surrounding others, 
bringing the force of the mind and will to bear on these conditions with 
the idea of changing the prevailing vibrations and bringing harmony from 
in-harmony, and success from failure. 

The majority of persons, not informed along these lines, are surrounded 
by a mental atmosphere arising from the prevailing mental states, 
thoughts, feelings, etc., and also arising from the thought-currents 
which they have attracted to them by the Law of Mental Attraction. These 
Mental Atmospheres, when once firmly settled around a person, render it 
most difficult for him to "break away" from their vibrations. He 
struggles and fights, but the prevailing vibrations are beating down 
upon him all the time and must produce a strong effect upon even persons 
of strong will, unless indeed they have fully acquainted themselves with 
the laws of Mental influence and have acquired the power of 
Concentration. The habit of a lifetime, perhaps, has to be overcome, and 
besides the constant suggestive vibrations from the mental atmosphere 
are constantly bringing a pressure to bear upon the person, so that 
indeed he has a mighty task before him to throw off the old conditions, 
unaided and alone. And, so, while individual effort is preferable, there 
comes a time in the lives of many people when "a helping hand," or 
rather a "helping mind," is of great service and aid. 
The person coming to the mental aid of a person needing his or her 
services is performing a most worthy and proper act. We hear a great 
deal about "interfering with other people's minds" in such kind and 
worthy "treatments," but in many cases there is but little real 
interference done. The work of the helper is really in the nature of 
neutralizing and dissipating the unfavorable. Mental Influence surrounds 
the other person, and thereby giving the other person a chance to work 
out his own mental salvation. It is true that everyone must do his or 
her own work, but help of the kind above indicated is surely most worthy 
and proper. 

In these White Magic treatments the person giving the treatments forms 
the Mental Picture of the desired condition in his mind, and then sends 
his thought-currents to the other person endeavoring to reproduce the 
Mental Picture in the mind or thought-atmosphere of the other person. 
The best way of doing this, of course, is to assert mentally that the 
desired condition actually exists. One may be of great help and aid to 
others in this  way, and there is no good reason why it should not be 
done. 

And now for the reverse side of the shield - We wish it were possible to 
avoid even a mention of this hateful form and manifestation of Mental 
Influence, but we feel that ignorance is no protection, and that it is 
useless and foolish to pursue the policy of the ostrich which sticks its 
head in the sand when pursued, that not seeing the hunter the latter may 
not see him. We believe that it is better to look things in the face, 
particularly where it is a case of "forewarned being forearmed." 
It is a fact known to all students of occultism that Black Magic has 
been frequently employed in all times to further the selfish, base aims 
of some people. And it is also known to advanced thinkers today that 
even in this enlightened age there are many who do not scruple to stoop 
to the use of this hateful practice in order to serve their own ends, 
notwithstanding the punishment that occultists know awaits such persons. 
The annals of history are full of records of various forms of 
witchcraft, conjuration and similar forms of Black Magic. All the much 
talked of forms of "putting spells" upon people are really forms of 
Black Magic, heightened by the fear and superstition of those affected. 
One has but to read the history of witchcraft to see that there was 
undoubtedly some force at work behind all of the appalling superstition 
and ignorance shown by the people of those times. What they attributed 
to the influence of people "in league with the devil" really arose from 
the use of Black Magic, or an unworthy use of Mental Influence, the two 
things being one. An examination of the methods used by these "witches," 
as shown by their confessions, gives us a key to the mystery. These 
"witches" would fix their minds upon other people, or their animals, and 
by holding a concentrated mental picture there, would send forth 
Thought-Waves affecting the welfare of the persons being "adversely 
treated," which would influence and disturb them, and often bring on 
sicknesses. Of course, the effect of these "treatments" were greatly 
heightened by the extreme ignorant fear and superstition held by the 
masses of people at the time, for Fear is ever a weakening factor in 
Mental influence, and the superstitions and credulity of the people 
caused their minds to vibrate in such a manner as to render them 
extremely passive to the adverse influences being directed against them. 
It is well known that the Voodoos of Africa, and similar cults among 
other savage races, practice Black Magic among their people with great 
effect. Among the natives of Hawaii there are certain men known as 
"Kahunas," who pray people sick, or well, whichever way they are paid 
for. These instances could be multiplied had we the space and 
inclination to proceed further with the matter. 

And in our own civilized lands there are many people who have learned 
the principles of Mental Influence, and who are using the same for 
unworthy purposes, seeking to injure others and defeat their 
undertakings, or else trying to bring them around to their own (the 
"treator's") point of view and inclinations. The modern revival of 
occult knowledge has operated along two lines. On the one hand we see 
and hear of the mighty power for good Mental Influence is exerting among 
the people today, raising up the sick, strengthening the weak, putting 
courage into the despondent and making successes of failures. But on the 
other hand the hateful selfishness and greed of unprincipled persons in 
taking advantage of this mighty force of nature and prostituting it to 
their own hateful ends, without heeding the dictates of conscience or 
the teaching of religion or morality. These people are sowing a baleful 
wind that will result in their reaping a frightful whirlwind on the 
mental plane. They are bringing down upon themselves pain and misery in 
the future. 

At this point we wish to utter a solemn warning to those who have been, 
or are tempted, to employ this mighty force for unworthy purposes .The 
laws of the mental plane are such that "as one sows so shall he reap." 
The mighty Law of Attraction acts with the accuracy of a machine, and 
those who seek to entangle others in a net of Mental influence sooner or 
later are caught by their own snare. The Black Magician involves him to 
pieces. He is sucked down into the whirlpool of his own making, and is 
dragged down to the lowest depths. These are not idle remarks, but a 
statement of certain laws of nature, in operation on the mental plane, 
which all should know and heed. 

And to those who may feel appalled at this mention of the existence and 
possibilities of Black Magic we would say that there is one thing to be 
remembered, and that is that GOOD always overcomes EVIL on the mental 
plane. A good thought always has the power to neutralize the Evil one, 
and a person whose mind is filled with Love and Faith may combat a 
multitude whose minds are filled with Hate and Evil. The tendency of all 
nature is upward and toward Good. And he who would pull it back toward 
Evil sets himself against the law of Spiritual Evolution, and sooner or 
later falls a victim to his folly. 

And then, remember this: Thought-Waves find entrance only to those minds 
that are accustomed to think similar thoughts. He who thinks Hate may be 
affected by Hate thoughts, while he whose mind is filled with Faith and 
Love is surrounded by a resistant armor which repels the invading waves, 
and causes them to be deflected, or else driven back to their senders. 
Bad thoughts, like chickens, come home to roost. Thoughts ace like 
Boomerangs, in their tendency to return to their sender. To the poison 
of Black Magic Nature gives the antidote of Right-Thinking. 

CHAPTER XII 
SELF-PROTECTION   

The reader of the preceding chapters will see the power of Mental 
Influence in its various phases of manifestation, and will recognize the 
possibility of the force being used to influence himself. The question 
that will naturally arise in the mind of every student and investigator 
of this important subject, and which comes to all at sometime, is: "How 
may I protect myself from the use of this power against myself - how may 
I render myself immune from these influences which may be directed 
against me?" 

It is true that we, and other writers on the subject, have shown you 
that one is far less liable to influence if he will maintain a mental 
atmosphere of high vibration - that is keeping oneself surrounded by a 
thought atmosphere filled with vibrations of the highest kind of 
thoughts and free from thoughts and desire of a base, selfish character, 
which tends to attract similar thoughts. In this way one creates a state 
of mental hygienic cleanliness which renders him immune from the 
"contagious thoughts of the selfish plane of desire," etc. This should 
be remembered and taken advantage of by everyone, for just as physical 
cleanliness gives no congenial lodgment for the germs of disease, so 
mental cleanliness refuses to admit the mental microbes. 
But there is a method far more efficacious than even the above-mentioned 
plan. And this method is really that employed by the adepts in 
Occultism, and the method and practice taught the initiates of the 
occult brotherhoods and lodges all over the world. Let us consider it 
here. 

In the first place, without entering into a statement of the details of 
the high occult teachings, we wish to inform you that the Basic 
Principle of all such teaching and instruction is the fact that within 
each of us, in the very center of the being of each individual - in the 
very heart of hearts of the immortal Ego - is what occultists know as 
the Flame of the Spirit. This is what you recognize in consciousness as 
the "I AM" consciousness - that consciousness of being which is far 
above the consciousness of Personality, or the things of personality. It 
is that consciousness which informs each individual, unmistakably, that 
he IS actually an Individual Being. This consciousness comes to the 
individual by reason of his contact with the great One Life of the 
Universe - it is the point of contact between the PART and the ALL. 
And in this part of a man's consciousness, coupled with the sense of 
BEING and "I," there resides a spark from the Divine Flame of Life and 
Power, which is what has been called the WILL of man. Now, do not 
mistake us and confuse this with the so called Will of personality, 
which is merely a Desire, or else a certain firmness, which often is 
little more than Stubbornness. This inner Will is Real Power, and when 
once recognized may be drawn upon as a source of unending and unfailing 
Strength. The occult adepts have developed the consciousness of this 
Power Within, and use it freely. This is the result of years of 
practice, and correct living and thinking. But, still, each and every 
person may draw upon this source of strength within them to aid them in 
life and to repel the thought-vibrations of the lower plane. 
This consciousness may be developed by a realization of its existence, 
and by a practice of bringing the idea in everyday consciousness, by 
thought, meditation and practice. The very fact of having called your 
attention to its existence has awakened within the mind of You who are 
reading these lines a new strength and sense of power. Think a moment 
and see whether you do not feel a dawning sense of Strength within you 
that you have not realized so fully before this moment! A continued 
recognition in your everyday consciousness of this Something Within will 
develop your ability to manifest it. Particularly in an hour of need 
will it spring to your assistance, giving you a sense of a part of 
yourself crying out to you in words of encouragement: "l Am Here! Be Not 
Afraid!" 

It is very difficult to give you this method in written or printed 
works, but if you will enter fully into a recognition of this Inward 
Power you will find yourself developing a new power of resisting outside 
influences that will astonish you. 

When you come in contact with people who are seeking to influence you in 
any of the ways mentioned in the preceding chapters of this book, or in 
others ways, you will find yourself able to defy their mental attacks by 
simply remembering the strength imminent in your "I," aided by the 
statement (made silently to yourself): "l am an Immortal Spirit, using 
the Will within my Ego." With this Mental Attitude you may make the 
slightest mental effort in the direction of throwing out from your mind 
vibrations, which will scatter the adverse influences in all directions, 
and which, if persisted in, will cause the other person to become 
confused and anxious to let you alone. 

With this consciousness held in mind, your mental command to another, 
"Let me alone - I cast off your influence by the power of my Spirit," 
will act so strongly that you will be able to actually see the effect at 
once. If the other person is stubborn and determined to influence you by 
words of suggestion, coaxing, threatening, or similar methods, look him 
or her straight in the eyes, saying mentally "I defy you - my inner 
power casts off your influence. Try this the next time that anyone 
attempts to influence you either verbally or by Thought-Waves and see 
how strong and positive you will feel, and how the efforts of the other 
person will fail. This sounds simple, but the little secret is worth 
thousands of dollars to every individual who will put it into practice. 
Above all, put out of your mind all Fear of others persons. The feeling 
of fear prevents you from manifesting the power within you to its full 
extent. Cast out fear as unworthy and hurtful. 

Not only the case of personal influence in the actual presence of the 
other person may be defeated in this way, but the same method will act 
equally as well in the matter of repelling the mental influence of 
others directed against you in the form of "absent treatments," etc. If 
you feel yourself inclining toward doing something which in your heart 
you feel that is not to your best interests, judged from a true 
standpoint, you may know that, consciously or unconsciously someone is 
seeking to influence you in this way. Then smile to yourself and make 
the statements mentioned above, or some similar one, and holding the 
power of the Spirit within your "I" firmly in you mind, send out a 
mental command just as you would in the case of the actual presence of 
the person himself or herself. You may also deny the influencing power 
out of existence by asserting mentally: "l DENY your power to influence 
me - you have no such power over me - I am resting on my knowledge of 
Spirit and its Will within me - I deny your power out of existence." 
This form of denial may be used either in the case of absent influence 
or personal influence. The rule is the same in all cases. 

In repelling these absent influences you will at once experience a 
feeling of relief and strength and will be able to smile at the defeated 
efforts of the other person. If you feel sufficiently broad and full of 
love for mankind you may then "treat" the other person for his error, 
sending him thoughts of Love and Knowledge with the idea of dispelling 
his ignorance and selfishness, and bringing him to a realization of the 
higher truths of life. 

You will doubtless have many interesting experiences arising from thus 
repelling these attacks. In some cases you will find that the next time 
you meet the person in question he will appear confused and puzzled and 
ill at ease. In other cases the person will begin to manifest a new 
respect and regard for you, and disposed to aid you instead of trying to 
influence you to his way and desire. In other cases the person will 
still have the desire, and will endeavor to "argue" you into doing that 
which he has tried to influence you into doing by Mental Influence, but 
his efforts will "fall flat," and without effect, particularly if you 
give him "another dose of the assertion of the Power of the Spirit 
within you. 

In the same way you should call upon your Higher Self for aid and 
strength when you feel yourself being affected by any of the great 
Mental Waves of feeling or emotion sweeping over the public mind, and 
which have a tendency to "stampede" people into adopting certain ideas, 
or of following certain leaders. In such case the assertion of the "I" 
within you will dissipate the influence around you, and you will find 
yourself standing in a center of Peace surrounded on all sides by the 
ocean of mental tumult and agitation which is sweeping over or circling 
around the place. In the same way you will be able to neutralize the 
unpleasant mental atmospheres of places, localities, houses, etc., and 
render yourself positive to and immune from the same. n short, we have 
given you here a recipe that may be used in any and every instance of 
the employment of Mental Influence. It may sound simple to you, but a 
little use of it will make you deem it the most important bit of 
practical knowledge you may possess. 
