9

[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]
[]                                                                          []
[]                            THOU SHALT NOT DUPE                           []
[]                         A flier printed by ADAPSO                        []
[]                           Typed in by Eight Ball                         []
[]                                                                          []
[][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][][]

EITHER WAY IT'S WRONG

People who would never walk into a store and shoplift a software product think
nothing of making several copies of the same software. The results are the
same. The act is just as wrong.
     When it coes to unauthorized duplication of software, many people do not
realize the costly impact on the software developer and the customre community.
The relationship between customer and developer in a software transaction is
one of mutual trust. The customer trusts that the devceloper has produced a
product that will deliver the desired result, performs according to
specifications, and is properly documented and supported. THE DEVELOPER TRUSTS
THAT THE CUSTOMER WILL MAKE USE OF ONLY THOSE COPIES FOR WHICH HE HAS PURCHASED
A LICENSE, EVEN THOUGH MAKING ADDITIONAL, UNAUTHORIZED COPIES IS RELATIVELY
EASY. Unauthorized duplication and use of software violates the US Copyright
Law, and unfairly deprives software developers of revenue they are entitled to
receive for their work.
     Software developers find that thousands of illegal copies have been made
by customers who either innocently believe they are doing nothing wrong or
simply choose to ignore the law.

THE LAW IS CLEAR

REPRODUCING COMPUTER SOFTWARE WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION VIOLATES THE US COPYRIGHT
LAW. IT IS A FEDERAL OFFENSE. THE MONEY PAID FOR A SOFTWARE PRODUCT REPRESENTS
A LICENSE FEE FOR THE USE OF ONE COPY. IT DOES NOT REPRESENT AN AUTHORIZATION
TO COPY. CIVIL DAMAGES FOR UNAUTHORIZED SOFTWARE COPYING CAN BE AS MUCH AS
$50,000 OR MORE AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES INCLUDE FINES AND IMPRISONMENT. BILLS
HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED IN CONGRESS TO STRENGTHEN THE LAW AND INCREASE PENALTIES.

MYTHS AND FACTS OF SOFTWARE

Let's start by dispelling some myths with a few facts.
     First, software developers DO NOT condone unauthorized copying in order to
gain market penetration.
     Second, the price of software DOES NOT make unauthorized copying
justifiable. The cost of a software product to a consumer represents only a
small fraction of the publisher's development and marketing costs.
     Third, although the cost of "softlifting" is borne initially by the
software developer, it is paid for ultimately by legitimate users.

WHAT IT MEANS TO YOU

It's obvious that legitimate software users are paying for theft along with
software developers.
     It's obvious, too, that no one is going to put up with it for long.
     Think twice before you ask someone to give you an illegal copy of their
software. Think three times before you offer to do it for someone else.
"Softlifting" or software piracy is not only a crime; it's simply wrong.

WHERE TO GET MORE INFORMATION

ADAPSO represents more than 750 corporate members that provide a wide spectrum
of computer services and software including: micro, mini and mainframe software
products; professional software services; batch and remote processing services;
integrated hardware/software systems; education and training; and consulting.
     For further information or questions on software protection, contect
ADAPSO at Suite 300, 1300 North 17th Street, Arlington VA 22209 or phone (703)
522-5055

Copyright (C) ADAPSO 1984 We encourage you to reproduce and distribute copies
of this brochure.

... Another G-file from The Corner Pocket [DSS] @3121 [301-583-0609] ...

Which G-file (Q=Quit) ? 