From: SLACK@ncsu.edu (Some Damn Old Nobody)
Date: 22 Jan 93 04:10:15 GMT
Newsgroups: alt.slack,alt.discordia,talk.bizarre
Subject: HToMC #14


 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$                                                          $$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$           HOLY TEMPLE of MASS CONSUMPTION              $$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$$                                                      $$$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$$$                   *N*E*W*S*                        $$$$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$$                                                      $$$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$                     Issue #14                          $$$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$                                                          $$$$$$$$$$
 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
                                     the best things in life are    F R E E
                                                                    F R E E
 For more info, send all your money to:                             F R E E
 
 Holy Temple of Mass Consumption        Hardcopy - send SASE
 PO Box 30904                           SLACK@ncsu.edu
 Raleigh, NC  27622                     Finer BBS's everywhere    HAPPY
 
 NEWS since the last time:
 
    HToMC will be at the VulKon in Atlanta, GA on Feb. 19-21.  For con info,
    call Joe Motes at (305) 434-6060 or 12237 SW 50 St., Cooper City, FL
    33330-5406.  This will be at the Hyatt Atlanta Airport, 1900 Sullivan
    Rd - (404) 991-1234 for reservations.  Guest include DeForest Kelley,
    George Takei, and possibly Colm Meaney.  Plus, slackful conventioneers.
 
 COMICS to Want and Buy:      (tons of great stuff for 1993)
 
  Ren & Stimpy #3                     The Hacker Files
      R&S become South Am. dictators       Operation Moonwitch (1.0) - Jan
                                           Operation Moonwitch (2.0) - Feb
  Ren & Stimpy #4
      Beatnick Stimpy, Java-crazed         After a government sting operation
      Ren, plus Muddy Mudskipper           frames computer users, Hacker and
                                           Scarecrow stage a daring breakout.
  Plus story in Marvel Age #121            Features the Green Lantern.
 
      Marvel Comics                        DC Comics
      387 Park Ave. South                  1325 Avenue of the Americas
      NY, NY  10016                        NY, NY  10016
 
  Post Brothers #29                   Flaming Carrot #30
      Ron fouls up an his new              Flaming Carrot and The Man on
      assassination job                    the Moon take on The Scribbler
 
  Savage Henry #24                    Thirteen O'Clock by Richard Sala
      A Night in Berlin: trouble           Mr. Murmur faces the diabolical
      with Bobbie Neuwave                  Doctor Q; stories from the MTV
                                           Liquid Television animator
      Both available from:
      Rip Off Press                        Dark Horse Comics
      PO Box 4686                          10956 SE Main St
      Auburn, CA  95604                    Milwaukie, OR 97222
 
  1993 Cry For Dawn Calendar          Prometheus' Gift
      Adults only.  Cross between          Modern reinterpretation of the
      Giger and Vargas, great pics         Greek Myth.  Weird stuff.
 
      Cry For Dawn Prod. Ltd.              Cat-Head Comics
      360-A W. Merrick Rd. Ste 350         PO Box 576
      Valley Stream, NY  11580             Hudson, MA  01749
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                             Bay Area Skeptics
 
                    PSYCHICS' PREDICTIONS FIZZLE FOR 1992
 
President Bush was not re-elected.  Madonna did not become a gospel singer, and
a UFO base was not found in the Mexican desert.  These were  just a few of  the
many  predictions  that had been made for  1992  by famous "psychics", but were
dead wrong, as chronicled by the Bay Area Skeptics.
 
At the end of each year,  many well-known "psychics" issue  predictions for the
year to come.   Twelve months later, they issue  another set of  predictions,
conveniently forgetting  those made the year before,  which are always nearly
100% wrong.  Each year, however, the Bay Area Skeptics dig up the predictions
made the year before, to the embarrassment of those who made them.
 
Many of the "psychic" predictions  made are so vague that it is impossible to
say if  they came true or not:  for  example, Jeane Dixon's  prediction  that
Tracey Gold "faces perilous periods in July and October" [The Star, April 14,
1992] is not obviously true or false. Many other "predictions" involve things
that happen every year, or else are not difficult to guess, such as terrorist
incidents,  marital strife for Charles and Diana,  or severe  winter  storms.
Many supposed "predictions" simply state that  ongoing events and trends will
continue, such as economic uncertainty, or conflict in the Middle East.  Some
predictions did of course come true,  especially those that were  unspecific,
or not at all difficult to guess: several "psychics" correctly predicted that
a hurricane would cause major destruction in Florida or Cuba, but not one was
specific as to the date or principal location of the damage. Hurricanes occur,
of course, every season in the Caribbean.   Significantly, not one prediction
which was both specific and surprising came true.
 
Other  supposed  "predictions"  are not  really  predictions  at all, but are
actually disclosures of little-known events which are already under way, such
as  movie  productions,  marriage plans,  business  ventures,  or  developing
scandals.  Because  questionable claims of having made an  amazing prediction
are frequently made in the wake of major news stories, the Bay Area  Skeptics
only evaluates predictions that were published or broadcast before the events
they claimed to foretell.
 
New York  "psychic" Lou Wright predicted that three men would  unsuccessfully
attempt to kidnap Candice Bergen in Paris, and Marlon Brando would be arrested
for trying to bust his son out of jail [Natl. Enquirer, Jan. 2, 1992].
 
Los Angeles "psychic"  Maria Graciette predicted that a secret UFO base would
be found deep in the  Mexican desert,  thousands of years old, and that Vice-
President Dan Quayle, attending a World Series game, would impulsively inter-
fere with a  play  [National Enquirer, June 9, 1992].
 
New York  "psychic"  John Monti  predicted  that  "a  massive hurricane  will
devastate Cuba and topple Castro's regime,"  that a huge AIDS epidemic  would
"threaten to end professional  sports" [National Enquirer, Jan. 2, 1992], and
that a scientific advance would allow women to delay menopause, allowing them
to have children into their 60s [National Enquirer, June 9, 1992].
 
The famous Washington, D.C. "psychic" Jeane Dixon, who supposedly has a "gift
of prophecy",saw that Fidel Castro would be overthrown, possibly resulting in
Cuba  becoming part of the U.S.,  and Virginia governor  Douglas Wilder would
gain  enough  support for a  "vice-presidential invitation".  President-elect
Bill Clinton,  however, she described as  "the Democratic shooting star," for
whom "an organization of women will try to block his path" [The Star, Jan. 21,
1992]. President Bush's ratings would climb, resulting in his reelection [The
Star, July 7, 1992].  She also predicted  "a promising economic upturn in the
spring," and that "broccoli  will become the miracle vegetable of  the  '90s"
[The Star, Jan. 21, 1992].
 
Chicago  "psychic"  Irene Hughes  predicted that Vanna White  and her husband
would  purchase a "haunted" mansion in  Beverly Hills, from which  they would
flee in  terror  a week later.   Madonna's  career would  be interrupted by a
"mystery illness," but she would recover after having a religious vision, and
become a gospel singer [National Enquirer, June 9, 1992].
 
New York "psychic" Laura Steele predicted that an earthquake would topple the
Gateway Arch  in St. Louis,  and that  William Kennedy Smith  would enter the
priesthood to become a missionary in Africa [National Enquirer, Jan. 2, 1992].
 
Los Angeles  "psychic"  Judy Hevenly predicted that  George Bush would be re-
elected "by a landslide," that Madonna would be hit by a car while jogging in
New York's Central  Park [National Enquirer, Jan. 2, 1992], and that Gennifer
Flowers  would  join  the  cast of a  popular  daytime  soap opera  [National
Enquirer, June 9, 1992].
 
Another  Southern California  "psychic," Clarisa Bernhardt, who is claimed to
make  "uncanny  earthquake  predictions,"  warned  that  scientists  would be
"shocked"  in October  when  supposedly earthquake-proof  Florida is hit by a
trembler, only  weeks after being  hit by "the worst hurricane in the state's
history."  The prediction that this year's  hurricane  season  would  produce
Florida's worst destruction yet was correct,but the earthquake prediction was
dead  wrong.  Bernhardt  also  predicted  that  Joan Lunden  would  renew her
marriage vows on her TV show, "Good Morning America" [National Enquirer, June
9, 1992],that Michael Jackson would lose his voice and quit singing, and that
Joan Rivers would be plagued by three look-alikes created through  "extensive
plastic surgery" [National Enquirer, Jan. 2, 1992].
 
Joan Quigley  of  San Francisco,  White  House  astrologer  to  the  Reagans,
predicted that  Bill Clinton would run out of money toward the campaign's end,
and  that the total  eclipse of the sun on  June 30 will  cause  earthshaking
events in China  [Washington Post, April 18, 1992].
 
Here in Northern California,  the date of that devastating  California earth-
quake  everybody  keeps predicting was pegged for Oct. 17, the third anniver-
sary of the Loma Prieta quake,  by "psychic" Ernesto A. Moshe Montgomery, who
claims an accuracy of 99 1/2 percent [San Jose Metro, Feb. 27, 1992].
 
Based on the continuing failure of the "psychics" to make accurate predictions
over the years, the Bay Area Skeptics urges everyone - especially  the media-
to exercise some healthy skepticism when "psychics" and other purveyors of the
paranormal  make  extra-ordinary claims or predictions.  Anyone  who  swallows
the "psychics'"  claims year after year without checking the record is setting
a bad example for students and for the public.
 
It is  important  to  note  that no  "psychic"  succeeded  in  predicting  the
genuinely surprising news stories of 1992:  The  destructive fire  in Windsor
Castle; the feud between Vice-President Quayle and Murphy Brown; the surpris-
ing presidential campaign  of Ross Perot.  These  major  news stories were so
totally unexpected that someone  would  have had to  be  genuinely  "psychic"
to have predicted them twelve months ago! Given the sheer number of so-called
"psychics" out there, one would expect that if even one of them were  genuine,
these things would have been correctly predicted; and since they were not, it
suggests that all such claims of "psychic powers" are without foundation.
 
The Bay Area Skeptics is a group of people from all walks of life who support
the critical examination of paranormal claims,  such as psychic powers, UFOs,
astrology, Bigfoot,  biorhythms, etc.  Similar  skeptics'  organizations  are
active  in  many  other  areas of the  country, including New York, Colorado,
Georgia,  Illinois,  Southern California,  Arizona,  Texas,  and  Ohio.   The
Committee for the Scientific  Investigation  of  Claims  of  the   Paranormal
(CSICOP), headquartered in Buffalo, NY, is an international Skeptics' organi-
zation,  made up of many famous writers, scientists,  and investigators, such
as Martin Gardner,  Stephen Jay Gould,  Carl Sagan, Philip J. Klass, and many
others.
 
For more information about the activities and publications of the Bay Area
Skeptics, you can call their recorded message line at 510-LA TRUTH.
 
THE MORAL:
 
  BEWARE of CONSPIRACY psychics!!!
  Accept only 100% Dobbs-Approved hallucinations.
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Fill out this coupon
  and save the aliens
 
  Complete this simple questionnaire, and befriend a needy
  space alien through the Save the Aliens Foundation.  For
  only sizty-five cents a day, your money can breathe life     [graphics]
  into an impoverished alien base...help hardworking aliens
  fight for their dignity....turn despair into hope for an
  alien who has known only life as an insect, reptile, or
  clone.  Sixty-five cents may not buy much where you live,
  but for desperate aliens, it can work miracles.
 
  My Name is_______________________________________________
 
  Address_______________________________________Apt._______
 
  City__________________________State___________Zip________
 
       Tell us how you want to help, by answering these questions:
 
  1.  What kind of alien would you like to sponsor:
 
      __ Tall Grey
      __ Short Grey
      __ Reptilian Master
 
  2.  What geographical area are you interested in?
 
      Urgent need exists in all the areas listed below, especially in
      outer space.  If you have a strong preference for a particular
      location, check the area of your choice.  If not, won't you please
      let us assign an alien where the need is greatest?
 
      __ Certainly.  Choose an alien for me in an area of greatest need.
 
 
      __ Zeta Reticuli       __ Belletrax          __ Draco
      __ Barnard's Star      __ Groom Lake         __ Area 51
      __ S-4 Base            __ Dreamland          __ Dulce Base
      __ Pleiades            __ Alomogordo         __ The Moon
      __ Mars                __ Middle Earth       __ Nightmare Hall
      __ A very crowded and smelly planetoid heading toward Earth
      __ Superstition Mountain
 
  3.  Would you like a frozen DNA sample of your sponsored alien?
 
      Shortly after we select an alien for you, we can send you a
      photograph, a brief personal history and a registered DNA sample
      stored in liquid nitrogen.  You can grow one right in your own
      home! (Cattle mutilation kit NOT included.)
 
      __ Yes       __ No
 
 
  4.  Would you like information about your alien's home planet or
      underground base?
 
      Because 44 years of experience has taught us that direct handouts
      of blood, tissue, and glandular secretions are the least effective
      way of helping aliens, your sponsorship contributions are not
      distributed that way.  Instead they are used to help aliens in the
      most effective way possible - by helping the entire underground
      base with projects and services, such as human organs, batch
      consignment slaves, street people to perform genetic experiments
      on, and scientists to be kept as pets.  You can receive detailed
      reports - duly notarized by the Jason Scholars and MJ-12 - on these
      activities which provide permanent improvements in your alien's
      environment.
 
      __ Yes       __ No
 
 
  5.  Would you like to exchange correspondence?
 
      If desired, correspondence can help build a meaningful one-to-one
      relationship.  Translations, where necessary, are supplied by
      Save the Aliens.
 
      __ Yes       __ No
 
 
  6.  How do you wish to send your sponsorship contribution?
 
      __ My check for $20 is enclosed for my first monthly
         sponsorship contribution.
      __ A pint of my blood and some thyroid and pituitary tissue
         is enclosed.
      __ Ten rocks of crack cocaine and a tenth of a gram of heroin
         are enclosed.  Please sell them to help the aliens.
 
  7.  Do you wish verification of Save the Aliens credentials?
 
      Save the Aliens is indeed proud of the handling of its funds.
      Based on last year's audit, an exceptionally large percentage of
      each dollar, tissue, or blood sample was used for direct aid to
      the aliens in their bases.  Drugs were sold by the CIA to the
      dregs of society to help buy the alien bases.  Due to slave labor
      and materials that were purchased using Pentagon "Black Budget"
      funds, your donation provides your alien with benefits worth
      many times your total gift.  Would you like to receive an
      informative Annual Report (including a money laundering tracer
      statement)?
 
      __ Yes       __ No
 
 
  8.  Would you rather make a contribution than become a sponsor
      at this time?
 
      Please show up at Fred's Cafe in Dulce, New Mexico, anytime
      during the next six months.  We'll send one of our special
      representatives to guide you to our corporate headquarters.
 
 
                    S A V E   T H E   A L I E N S
                1562 Mutilation Road, Dulce NM  97658
 
         Member of the American Council for Involuntary Action
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Reprinted without permission from "Stop Making Sense" by The Talking Heads.
 
TIPS FOR PERFORMERS: Playing cards have the top half upside-down to help
cheaters. There are a finite number of jokes in the universe. Singing is a
trick to get people to listen to music for longer than they would ordinarily.
There is no music in space. People will pay to watch people make sounds.
Everything on stage should be larger than in real life.
 
LIVING WITH OTHER PEOPLE: Violence on television only affects children whose
parents act like television personallities. Table manners are for people who
have nothing better to do. Civilization is a religion. Civilized people walk
funny. There is always a party going on somewhere. People will remember you if
you always wear the same outfit.
 
LIFE ON EARTH: Men like pastries, women like custards. Scientists have
invented a love drug, but it only works on bugs. Animals like earthquakes,
tornadoes, and volcanic activity. Nuclear weapons can wipe out life on Earth,
if used properly. Cats like houses better than people. Dolphins find people
amusing, but they don't want to talk to them. People look ridiculous when
they're in ecstasy. Schools are for training people how to listen to other
people. Body odor is the window to the soul. Sound is worth money.
 
IN THE HOME: There have been cases where people's shoes got stuck on their
feet and could never be removed. The best way to get rid of unwanted flying
insects is to have strong body odor. There hasn't been a good=looking American
car in 20 years. There is always something on television. The best length for
television programs is either 30 seconds or 8 hours.
 
THE SPACE PEOPLE: Space People read our mail. The Space People think that TV
news programs are comedies, and that soap operas are news. The Space People
will contact us when they can make money by doing so. The Space People think
factories are musical instruments. They sing along with them. Each song lasts
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. No music on weekends.
 
MONEY: People will do odd things if you give them money. When everything is
worth money, then money is worth nothing. If you keep your money in your shoe,
then people will know which bills are yours. If you crumple your money into
little bills, it will never stick together. The best way to touch money is by
the edges. U.S. money is the worst looking money in the world.
 
WORLD TRAVEL: Passport pictures are what people really look like. Rich people
will travel great distances to look at poor people. Toast is the national dish
of Australia. People never travel to look at flat landscapes. People would
rather watch things than eat. Looking at postcards is better than looking at
the real thing. Looking up is as scary as looking down.
 
IN THE FUTURE: In the future, women will have breasts all over. In the future,
it will be a relief to find a place without culture. In the future, plates of
food will have names and titles. In the future, we will all drive standing up.
In the future, love will be taught on television and by listening to pop
songs.
 
WORK: Crime is a job. Sex is a job. Growing up is a job. School is a job.
Going to parties is a job. Religion is a job. Being creative is a job.
 
 
                [Groovy graphics here]
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
[Recipient]: Please Reply.
 
Hello Fellow SubG's,
 
Bishop Oskee Boskee [B.O.B.] here.  I'll be passing along a Brag here that I've
sent into Brother Stang in Dobbsland, Texas.  Enjoy!
 
"BRAG OF THE SYSOP SUBGENIUS"                      BISHOP OSKEE BOSKEE [B.O.B.]
 
 
             "Sure I'll respect you in the morning.  Now shut up."
 
 
     I'm the  Silicon Cul-De-Sac  of telecommunications!   I'm  the first,
     last and  ONLY multi-tasking  mutant!   I infected JHVH-1's mainframe
     with the  SLACK Virus  and sold  'em another  copy as a viral purger!
     Yeah baby,  I'm crawling  with computer  bugs!   I  eat  hackers  for
     breakfast and  crap pure  assembler code before lunch!  I put the HEX
     in hexidecimal!   I  think in binary and speak & write in 7 different
     languages, none of which I understand!  Miles Dyson was my kinda guy!
     I NEVER  read the  documentation!   I whiffread programs and re-write
     the code  in my  pipe-dreams!  I don't need peripherals!  I am my own
     goddamn hard drive!  End users kiss my anal pucker just to get a feel
     of my RAM!  My joystick makes all video games obsolete!  I don't need
     a surge  protector!   I spike voltage for shits and giggles!  Let the
     Pinkboys play  with their  floppies!  My animal magnetism wipes their
     data disks  every time!  I back myself up 10 times a second!  I threw
     God into  an endless  loop a  millennia ago!   Christianity  is still
     trying to  explain that one away!  They don't know that the Bible was
     a half-assed  attempt at  a user's  manual!   KREEEEEE-GAH!!  I'm the
     hackmaster behind  getting the Dobbshead on the Slackless Atari!  IBM
     gets its  best ideas  from my  worst designs!   The System 360 was my
     idea of  running in  a circle!   Yi!!   Yi!!   I  forced the Con into
     merging IBM  and Macintosh!    Why  do  you  think  they  call  their
     operating system  PINK??  Just try to send me your trojans!  Come on!
     Try to  crash me!   I'll  change your high voltage probe into a short
     circuit!   There isn't  a dataprocessing  chip with  a  throat  large
     enough for  my wang!  "Stick disk #3 in the drive," they say!  "Hell,
     I'll cram the WHOLE DAMN BOX of 'em in if I want!" I say!  Yi!!  Yi!!
     I'm BEYOND  artificial intelligence!  I'm the mother of the first and
     only Slackputer!   I  taught it the value of SexHurt!  It connects to
     anything and  blows fuses  for a  cheap thrill!   When  the Pink ones
     asked it "Is there a God?", my baby replied, "There is NOW!"  The Con
     asked me  how to merge silicon with living beings!  "Go pound sand up
     your ass with a mallet!" I said!  Now upload that
 
                           [run-time error runs out]
 
 
 
Copyright 1992        Dyson's Sphere Productions, Ltd.      All Rights Reserved
 
 
 One nuclear bomb can ruin your whole day.
 Dyson's Sphere  WWIVnet @ 7470
 
----------------------------------------
 
 
------          Join the Pythagorean Reform Church!               .
\    /        Repent of your evil irrational numbers             . .
 \  /   and bean eating ways. Accept 10 into your heart!        . . .
  \/   Call the Pythagorean Reform Church BBS at 508-793-9568  . . . .
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 [Blatant ad:]
 
        [appropriate graphics]
 
 
                         10" of SLACK
 
   is a non-renewable petroleum-based vinyl record in the obtuse
   10" format.  It features aPOPcalyptic hits from the Rev. Ivan
   Stang + Huge Voodoo, Size Ten Jaw (featuring improv greats The
   Shaking Ray Levis), King Kill 33, and Skull & Bones.  Genuine
   Bob-approved SLACK is now a reality in your own home, spinning.
 
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
 
   YES!  Rush me my own *personal* copy of 10" of SLACK today!  I
   understand I may grumble loudly if not delighted with the results.
 
   Send $5.00 check or m.o. payable to:
 
    Andrew Pierce
    1747 Jericho Ct.
    Tucker, GA  30084
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                     C O N V E N T I O N S       (also see page 1)
 
 
January 29-February 1, 1993 (Australia, Victoria)
 
   RADICON.  Radisson President Hotel, Melbourne, Australia.  Guests: Bjo &
   John Trimble, other media guests.  Convention also is a benefit
   convention for the Red Cross.  Memb: A$140 until 1/22/93, A$29
   supporting.  Info: Radicon, c/o Christopher Ballis, Box 322, Bentleigh
   3204, Australia; phone 011-61-3-557-7088.
 
February 5-7, 1993 (Oklahoma)
 
   PSUREALCON '93.  Oklahoma City, OK.  Info: Psurealcon '93, Box 2069,
   Norman OK 73070.
 
February 5-7, 1993 (Texas)
 
   CONNIPTION '93.  Dallas, TX.  Guests: TBA.  Info: Conniption '93, PO Box
   260912, Plano TX 75026-0912.
 
February 10-13, 1993 (Utah)
 
   LIFE, THE UNIVERSE & EVERYTHING 11.  Brigham Young University, Provo,
   UT.  GoHs: Orson Scott Card, Barbara Hambly, Kevin J. Anderson; SGoHs:
   Dave Wolverton, M. Shayne Bell, Michaelene Pendleton.  Memb: $10.  Info:
   Life, the Universe & Everything 11, 3163 JKHB, Brigham Young Univ.,
   Provo UT 84602.
 
February 12-14, 1993 (Alabama)
 
   CONTINUITY '93.  Parliament House, Birmingham AL.  GoH; Joe Haldeman.
   Info: Continuity, c/o 620 80th Place S., Birmingham AL 35206;
   (205)836-6460.
 
February 12-15, 1993 (Pennsylvania)
 
   COSTUMECON 11.  Sheraton, Station Square, Pittsburgh PA.  Costumer's
   convention.  Memb: $55.  Discounts to members of International
   Costumer's Guild.  Info: Costumecon 11, 200 N. Homewood Ave., Pittsburgh
   PA 15208; (412)242-8837.
 
February 19-21, 1993 (Massachusetts)
 
   BOSKONE XXX.  Sheraton Tara, Rte 9 at Exit 12 on the Mass. Pike,
   Framingham, MA; rms $84 sngl, $86 others, parking free; (508)879-7200.
   GoH: Joe Haldeman; AGoH: Tom Kidd; SGoH: Beth Meacham.  Boskone returns
   to the Greater Boston area - come celebrate the craft and community of
   SF.  Memb: $29 until 1/17/93, $40 after.  Info: NESFA, Box 809,
   Framingham, MA 01701-0203; (617) 625-2311.
 
February 19-21, 1993 (Virginia)
 
   SHEVACON.  Ingleside Hotel & Resort, Staunton, VA.  Info: Shevacon, c/o
   The Dragon's Hoard, 15 E. Johnson, Staunton VA 24401.
 
February 20-21, 1993 (Washington)
 
   BLOODCON 1. Executive Inn, Seattle WA.  Memb: $15 until 1/30/93, $18
   after.  Info: BLOODCON 1, 540-C NE Northgate, suite 236, Seattle, WA
   98125.
 
February 26-28, 1993 (California, Northern)
 
   POTLACH II.  Shattuck Hotel/Berkeley Convention Center, Berkeley, CA.
   Literary sf conference.  Memb: $30; $10 supporting.  Info: Potlach II,
   c/o Spike Parsons, Box 20132, Castro Valley CA 94546; (510)658-7176.
 
February 26-28, 1993 (California, Southern)
 
   GALLIFREY ONE GOES FORTH.  Airport Hilton, Burbank, CA; rms $69
   sngl/dbl.  GoH: John Levene; TM: Larry Stewart.  Emphasis on British
   media.  Memb: $40 until 2/1/93, $45 after.  Info: P.O. Box 3021, N.
   Hollywood, CA 91609.
 
February 26-28, 1993 (Florida)
 
   HURRICON.  Holiday Inn Beach Resort, Fort Walton Beach, FL; rms $45
   quad, $75 suite.  FGoH: Robert Neagle; Guests: George Alec Effinger,
   Margaret Weis, Douglas Niles, Ray Aldridge, more.  Memb: $25 until
   1/31/93, $30 after.  Info: Hurricon, Steven Earl Yoder, c/o Bards Tales
   Book Shoppe, 109D Racetrack Road, Fort Walton Beach Fl 32547;
   (904)862-7323.
 
February 26-28, 1993 (Kentucky)
 
   UPPERSOUTHCLAVE 23.  Park Mammoth Resort, Park City, KY; rms
   $28/$38/$43/$48.  GoH: Margaret Keifer.  Memb: $15 until 2/5/93, $20
   after.  Info: UpperSouthClave 23, c/o Gary Robe, Box 3221, Kingsport TN
   42135; (615)239-3106
 
February 26-28, 1993 (Washington)
 
   RADCON IA.  Shilo Inn and O'Callahan's Restaurant, Richland, WA.  GoH:
   John Dalmas; AGoH: Betsy Mott; FGoH: Jon Gustafson.  Info: Edgar
   Lincoln, 104 Comstock, Richland, WA 99352; (509)943-0845 (weeknights).
 
March 4-7, 1993 (Connecticut)
 
   1993 WORLD HORROR CONVENTION.  Sheraton, Stamford, CT; rms $87 sngl/dbl.
   GoHs: Peter Straub, Les Daniels; AGoHs: J.K. Potter, Stephen Gervais;
   TM: Stanley Wiater.  Memb: $75; $25 supporting.  Info: World Horror
   Convention 1993, Box 191, Andover CT 06232.
 
March 5-7, 1993 (California, Southern)
 
   CON-DOR #1.  Town & Country Inn, 500 Hotel Circle, San Diego, CA 92108;
   rms $69 sngl/dbl; (619)291-7131.  GoHs: Octavia Butler, J. Michael
   Straczynski.  Memb: $25 until 2/15/93, $30 after (children under 12
   accompanied by parent - free).  Info: Con-Dor, PO Box 15771, San Diego,
   CA 92175.
 
March 5-7, 1993 (Missouri)
 
   CONFLATION.  Radisson, Clayton, MO.  GoHs: Victor Milan, Mike Weaver.
   Adults Only.  Adults only convention.  Memb: $15 until 1/15/93, $20
   after.  Info: ConFlation, c/o Bibbi Wilt, 5138-B Old LeMay Ferry Rd.,
   Imperial MO 63052; (314)287-3825.
 
March 5-7, 1993 (New York)
 
   ASTRONOMICON 2.  Radisson Inn, Rochester, NY 14623; rms $60 sngl/dbl;
   (716)475-1910.  GoH: Michael Swanwick; AGoH: Phil Foglio; SGoH: The
   Gunderson Corp.; guests: Nancy Kress, Nick Pollotta, John Allen Price,
   Larry Stewart, Marcos Donnelly, S.M. Stirling, S.N. Lewitt.  Memb: $20
   until 2/1/93, $25 after.  Info: Rochester Fantasy Fans, P.O. Box 1701,
   Rochester, NY 14603-1701; (716)342-4697; email: dmk (a t) mit.edu (David
   Kushner).
 
March 5-7, 1993 (Wisconsin)
 
   WISCON 17.  Concourse Hotel, Madison, WI.  GoH: Lois McMaster Bujold;
   EGoH: Kristine Kathryn Rusch.  SF convention; Tiptree Memorial Award
   Ceremony.  Memb: $18 until 2/21/93, $30 after.  Info: Wiscon 17, Box
   1624, Madison WI 53701; (608)231-2324.
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ ===============R=A=V=E=S===============
@@@@@@@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@@@@@@@@
@@@@@@                           @@@@@@ Sat Jan 30. Somewhere near Cincinnati..
@@@@@            w ww wi          @@@@@
@@@@,            ~ ~~ ~I           @@@@   Thome Tomato wants you to BOUNCE.
@@@@'                  ;   ,-@<    @@@@   On the techno bouncing turntables:
@@@@                     _eW@@@    `@@@        Det:    Boomer
@@@@     @@@@@@@q      j@@@@@@@  O  @@@        Cin:    DJ Daisy
@@@@     @@@@@@@@w___,w@@@@@@@@  @  @@@        Col:    John D, Kevy Kev
@@@@     @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  }  @@@  + special guests djs from the MidWest
@@@@     @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  I  @@@
@@@@     @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@*@[ i  @@@       live - Cincinnati's Sonic
@@@@     @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@~   ;  @@@       Columbus' Theory Collapse
@@@@     @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@[]  | ]@@@
@@@@           @@@@@@@@@@@@@@[][ |  @@@ This party will for the first time have
@@@@     ~_._  ~@@@@@@@~ ____~ @    @@@ not one, but two moon bounces to rave
@@@@       ;;-  `@@@@@'             @@@ and ramble.  Lighting by who-the-fuck-
@@@@    _~ ,en,  `@@@~   en `@ ]l  J@@@ cares-as-long-as-it's-trippy.  Loops by
@@@@       -()-   @@@/ _-()- @ ]L   @@@ the Acid Minded Professor and Xeffects.
@@@@  , @@w@ww+   @@@ww``,,@w@ ][  @@@@ Smart bar by Jimmies Think Smart for
@@@@ .  @@ @      @@@~-zz..@@@ ][  @@@@ all those insomniak ravers.   40,000
@@@@,  @@@@www@@@ @@@@@@@ww@@@@@[  @@@@ watts bass by Thundersound to shake the
@@@@.  @@@@&&&@@@ @@&@@@@@@@@@@@[  @@@@ building and your body.
@@@@@ || @@@@@@P' @@Q@@@@@@@@@@@[:C@@@@
@@@@@_   @@@@@@   @@ @@@@@@@@@@  ;$@@@@ Sponsored by -
@@@@@@w| '@@P~  ,@@@@-w, wU@@w'],@@@@@@     Bang Instant Rave Gear
@@@@@@@   @@    P]@@@=~j ~Y@@~ ] @@@@@@     Wizards Records
@@@@@@@_             !@@t+ ~~  ]]@@@@@@     Real Movies in Downtown
@@@@@@@[   -        -J@@T#       @@@@@@
@@@@@@@@,@ @@, _,,,,,,,y ,w@@[ ,@@@@@@@ Call Jan 30 for directions to map point
@@@@@@@@ @ @@  C          !@@   @@@@@@@
@@@@@@@@@ i @w.  ====--_@@@@@  @@@@@@@@ Phone: 513-860-6039
@@@@@@@@@   @2'        '@@@@~  @@@@@@@@
@@@@@@@@@@`,P~ / ~~~~~Y@@@@@  @@@@@@@@@ ---------------------------------------
@@@@@@@@@@@.   y       @@@@   @@@@@@@@@ Feb 13 - Columbus OH - Temple of Noise
@@@@~~=~@@~   ~'     .@@@@@ _@@@@@@@@@@
@@@          ,   ,ww,w@@@@ _@@@@@@@@@@@ Industry Productions presents Temple of
@@@_xJw w   ,    @@@@@@@&~_@@@@@@@@@@@@ Noise.  A 7 hour continuous dance
@@   @~ ~  ,@   @@@@@@@P _@@@@@@@@@@@@| orgasm from 10pm to 5am.
@@   U.   ,@@@,_____   _,J@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@@   v;   @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 6 Intellibeams, 2 emulators,giant earth
@@L  `' ,@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ quaking sound and mind numbing strobes.
@@~   _-@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ From Pittsburgh: Dj Strobee
For hardcopy w/graphics, send SASE to:|       Detroit: Boomer
                                      | Columbus' best: Kevy Kev & Mike Leachio
  Holy Temple of Mass Consumption     | special guest: Cincy's Thome Tomato
          PO Box 30904                | A 18 and over event. 21+ over full bar.
       Raleigh, NC  27622             | Smart bar for smart people.
                                      |
For ezine version, mail:              | Info: 614-341-7345
                                      |
  Slack@ncsu.edu to get on list       |----------------------------------------
  quartz.rutgers.edu - back           |
  issues (128.6.60.6)                 |Atlanta Raves
                                      |
--------------------------------------- 100 Monkeys - 95 Broad St, Atlanta.
 Detroit parties:                       Raves every Friday, (404) 706-7626 for
                                        info/directions.  All ages and usually
February 12, 1993                       inexpensive
Tentative show in Ann Arbor, MI
Sponsored by BMG & Jeffery 0, VOOM...    Sun, Jan. 31 - Club-wide rave at the
DJs  Stacey Pullen                      Masquerade with MOBY, PRODIGY, AND
     D. Wynn                            CYBERTRONIC. $10.50 advance thru Ticket
     Mike Huckaby                       master.  On North Avenue.
 
Holy Temple of Mass  $   >>> slack@ncsu.edu <<<    $  "My used underwear
   Consumption!      $                             $   is legal tender in
PO Box 30904         $     BBS: (919) 782-3095     $   28 countries!"
Raleigh, NC  27622   $  Warning: I hoard pennies.  $     --"Bob"

