============================================================================== 
RELEASED ON 01/01/92 
============================================================================== 
... ....... ... ... ...... ....... ... ... ............. :### :#######. :### 
:### .:###### :#######. :### :### :############# :### :### #### :### :### :### 
:### :### :### :### :#### :### ..... :### :### :### :###.:### :### :### 
:###..:### :### :##### :### .:#####. :### :### :### :######## :### :### :### 
#### :### :### ##:### :### ### :### :### :### :### :### ###.:### :### :### :### 
##### :###.... :### ### ..:### :### :### ###### :### :### :### #### :### #### 
:###......:#### :### :###...........:### :###.:### :### ###.:### ############ 
### ################## ######## ### ###### PART ONE 
.............................................................................. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
.............................................................................. 
......................F.O.R...F.U.N...A.N.D...P.R.O.F.I.T..................... 
.............................................................................. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
============================================================================== 
WRITTEN, CREATED, AND TESTED BY VIDEO VINDICATOR 
============================================================================== 
INTRODUCTION ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Welcome to Part One of ID Hoping, I hope you enjoy 
this file, and get as much use out of it as I have gotten writing it. The 
objective of this file is not to help you make fake identities, but more 
appropriately take over someone else, and then abuse their respective accounts. 
There are essenctially three types of identities (other then the one you're born 
with), and they are; Created, Forged, and Borrowed. With created, you forge all 
the paperword needed to make the identity legal, and from that point on you are 
essencially that person for life. With forged (which will be covered in depth in 
part two) you just create the minimal ID's, instead of applying through the 
state. With borrowed, which is what this file is concerned with, you take over 
another living person's ID in order to abuse their specific credit. From the 
point you transfer his identity over to you, you are him. If you don't have a 
criminal record (and thus no fingerprints on record) you can really create a 
mess if caught with the borrowed stats, since they think they have him, not you, 
and look for him (but he looks like you (pretty wild, eh?)). This project has 
many uses, all limited only by your imagination, and any given laws in your 
state (ya, right). And now... For the disclaimer, which I'm sure you are all 
waiting on the edge of your seat for... Well, wait no longer! I claim ALL 
responsibility for all the misdeads done with the herein information, and accept 
my sentence to burn in hell for eternity (with pleasure, eh?). Any illegal uses 
gained out of this file is PURELY QUINCIDENTAL (ya, right), and if you come up 
with an illegal methods I haven't mentioned please tell me, so I can, of course, 
report this to the proper authorities (after I try it for a couple months). If 
you enjoy this file, send me some money or stolen merchandise, or anything 
illegally gotten at the cost of others. To accept something legitimately 
purchased might lessen my chances in Hell... And now, on with the file... WHAT 
YOU WILL ACCOMPLISH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ In creating an maintaining an 
identity, the hardest part is to stand up to the background check. Since this 
usually delves fairly farther then the identity does, it shows quite well when a 
created one is used... This is not what you want. By abusing someone who already 
exists, you simply take advantage of the fact that with them, there diffinantly 
will be some sort of past, and that they are not wise enought to realize exactly 
what is going on. About the longest I've ever been able to control an assumed 
identity is around two to three months... At around this point word starts 
getting back to the actual person and they quickly take steps to shut down all 
the work which you have so carefully done... But that's ok, you should have 
already done your damage, and now it's far too late for them to do anything of 
any consiquence... On to the next identity. It will on average take the normal 
Joe around five to six months total to realize just what has happened. You see, 
the last thing people expect is that someone is using their name and their ID 
and THEIR bank account for fraudulent ends... But hey, in this case ignorance is 
definantly not bliss! hehe... FIRST STEP - GENERAL INFORMATION 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ You need some basic information about the 
subject who you wish to take over. Here's a list of what you pretty much need 
and where you can get it: * SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER - Checks and sometimes 
drivers licenses DRIVERS LICENSE NUMBER - Checks, drivers license, DMV # DATE OF 
BIRTH - Checks and sometimes drivers licenses * FULL NAME (AND MIDDLE) - Checks, 
drivers license, bills, phone co. MOTHERS MAIDEN NAME - Bank # MARITAL STATUS - 
Bank and phone co. (sometimes) # CURRENT ADDRESS - Checks, drivers license, 
bills, phone co. PHONE NUMBER - Checks, bills (sometimes), phone co. * - Can get 
from CBI (Equifax) pullups always. # - Can get from CBI pullups sometimes. 
[blank] - Can never get from CBI pullups. CBI is probably the most widely used 
method, but as you can see, it will not supply you with all the infomation you 
need. When I list check or drivers lic. I mean this for people who work in 
stores and take checks. You all know that you write down a bunch of information 
off of the license on the back of the check, and this is probably one of the 
best sources. I have even been able to scam their maiden name this way as well! 
Of all the information you need, the mothers maiden name is perhaps the most 
important and hardest. This is used primarily by banks and credit companies, and 
is a real bitch. I have found the best way to either go into the bank and change 
the person's by acting like you told them the wrong one, or by calling up the 
actual person and bullshitting it out of them. The best thing about once you 
have a persons maiden name is that it doesn't change and you can burn them for 
the rest of their worthless life! Well, maybe not the rest of their life, but 
the bank will keep using it at least three or four more times. SECOND STEP - 
TEMP DMV LICENSE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ You can always get a temporary 
license sent to you by the DMV by telling them that you lost the origional, and 
you're on a trip out-of-state. They will usually have one to you in about five 
working days, and then you're ready to have some fun. They require almost no 
proof of who you are over the phone (which is a real joke, eh?) and the most I 
ever was asked was when my birthday was. You can get almost all the information 
you need off of a normal CBI pullup, or from a friend if it's someone who you 
know. Sometimes you can get away with simply the name and address of the person. 
Now one note on these... No two states temporary ID is the same, which makes 
forgery of these a BREEZE! I will be releasing a rather large file around the 
first of the new year which will be around a meg zipped and will include 
high-resolution scans (800dpi, 24bit color) of almost all of the fifty states 
licenses, and temp ID formats. I'm sure you can come up with MANY, MANY uses for 
something along this line, right? They'll be in TIF format, to make them 
compatible with any decent system. Once you forward this, it will give you alot 
more information about the subject then you already had, for example, his 
height/weight/eye color/hair color, etc. Then with this you can decide whether 
or not a complete takeover is truely fesible or not. There usually will be no 
problem if you just basically fit the description on the slip, like if he's 
5'-10", and you're 6'-10" you'll easily be able to take it over. You also can 
sometimes get the DMV (Department of Motor Vehicles) to actually change some of 
the information to better fit you, like height or weight. I have been able to 
change the eyes and hair on rare occasions, and it's always worth a shot. Just 
tell them something along the lines like "I think there was something wrong on 
my old one... What was my weight listed as?", then just say "Yes, that's it, I 
really 180, not 140.". If the height is for some reason way off, tell them you 
though it was supposed to be inches not feet/inches (this only works if you are 
shorter than the person in the ID, considerably). THIRD STEP - BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The birth certificate is like the corner stone of 
the new identity, and is also one of the most important things that is easy to 
get. You need no ID to get this, simply say that you are the person. The easiest 
way to locate the person's place of birth is by referencing the largest city in 
the state that their social security number was issued, or by the first address 
listed on the report (if you're using a CBI pullup as a target). Call up the 
hall of records, which is where is will be located, tell them that you live out 
of state, lost your copy and need another notorized one. Usually they will send 
it with no hastles, although some cheap- lame states will make you send five 
dollars (almost never more), and a fucking SASE... Cheap! If all the government 
agencies operated like that there wouldn't be a deficit! Anyways, then send it 
through our wonderful postal service, so it will usually take one to two weeks 
to recieve, but it's well worth the wait. I would recommend anyone who does this 
to save the birth certificate, or if you are really cool, send it to me so I can 
scan it and make it available for others to use (without the name, blank ones 
are much more valuable). Otherwise just keep them for reference, and for forgery 
(which will be covered in the second part of this great series). FORTH STEP - 
SOCIAL SECURITY CARD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This is usually easily 
gotten, by simply going down to the social security office in your town, with 
the birth certificate and telling them that your wallet was stolen and you need 
a replacement. Realize this, the SSN doesn not show or even indicate your true 
age, so you can in theory take over a much older persons identity (covered later 
on in the file). The will usually print up a new one for you right there and 
you're ready to go. If you wish to avoid this, you can usually get nice metal 
plates made that resemble a social security card, with any number you want 
engraved on it. This is usually done at like K-Mart-type places. Although I 
would recommend going along the normal paths, you can always do this if you feel 
to unsure or are using a forged birth certificate of shitty quality. FIFTH STEP 
- REAL PHOTO LICENSE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This is one of the more 
difficult parts of the takeover, and required that you successfully completed 
all four of the above steps. All you do is take the persons birth certificate 
and social security number down to the DMV, along with a letter the person's 
state will supply you with that states you are moving from there, have lost your 
license, and verifies the information you have given. With all of the above 
fulfilled you should run into NO problems whatsoever in the DMV, and since these 
people are generally overworked and underpaid, they will let some minor mistakes 
slide easily. Make sure that you have access to a car, since most state will 
require you to take another driving test, and also that you have all of the 
person's information memorized, since it's bad news if they catch on to you 
while you're trying to get a hold of a government identification. I also would 
recommend that you keep a hold of these with the birth certificates and anything 
else you should happen to get. I will talk a little about this at the end. SIXTH 
STEP - ATM CARD / BANK ACCOUNTS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Now for 
the profit part, and then the fun begins. This is the most difficult part, 
simply because you're not dealing with retard government employee's any more... 
Although bank people aren't paid or treated much better. About the only info a 
bank will require or ask (and not all will) is for your mothers (or more 
appropriately his) mothers maiden name. This is a real bitch and pretty much has 
to either be extracted from the banks computers, from the real person, or by 
bullshitting some employee, although the former is VERY difficult. Once you have 
this, simply ask for a replacement ATM card, flash that nice new state-issued ID 
and they'll mail you off one in less than a week, with a copy of the real 
person's PIN. And if this poor sap doesn't have one, then get one... After all, 
you are him, so why not. Also make sure to take over all of his banking and 
checking accounts. When you are pulling money out, make sure to never get more 
than $5000 per day, otherwise they have to notify the government, and this is 
one thing that you don't want. Also the bank account and ATM card just are two 
more forms of ID for this wonder- ful identity... And should be kept safe with 
the rest of the paraphanalia. You can also get the subject's credit cards 
re-issued to you, and then also make sure to hook them up to the ATM, so you can 
get cash advances from them without having to deal with any real people. A 
little less than half of the ATM machines have real cameras, so just go around 
and scam out the ones that you know don't. Ones which almost always don't are 
those is 'safe' areas, like hospitals and in malls. One more way to make cash 
with this new-found identity is to follow all the steps covered in the file 
'Bank Fraud', by LE Pirate and released by cDc. Just use the real person's bank 
account, and don't stress on the ID, then that files idea works GREAT. Good 
thinking LE! SEVENTH STEP - PURE RAPE! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Now you 
essencially are for all intensive purposes this person, so you can do everything 
a person would normally do, such as apply for a car loan, in a no- title state 
(refer to my file 'Auto Theft, a Practicle Approach'), drive it for a week or 
two, get the plates, then turn around and sell it for a nice profit to a local 
used car dealership. They usually will buy it with no problems and have no way 
of knowing who owns the car outright. Then just use the ID to cash the check at 
the issueing bank and wala... You just make a good $10,000 on like a $20,000 
car. Try to choose common, easy-to-sell cars, like Mustang 5.0's or Mazda 
Miata's. Don't get a Ferrari or Lotus, since no place will by it and it will 
look totally suspicious if you sell it low. You have the guys credit cards, so 
spend! Jeez... Or just pull money out of the ATM until there isn't shit left (my 
personal favorite). You can also do a little twist on the idea of the car loan, 
and just take out a personnal loan from your (his) bank. Then just cash it and 
pocket the cash. A LITTLE BIT OF THEORY AND ALOT OF LUCK 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I have only been able to pull this off 
once, although I honestly haven't tried it too often. What I did is took a 
forty-two year old guys Identity, and changed the birth certificate to say 1969 
instead of 1949, then went to the DMV and made it look like some kind of 
computer mixup (and we all know how often those really happen, hehe). Then I got 
the guys drivers license, with my picture on it. I then went to the bank, and 
pulled the same trick on them (although they were to damn dense to even realize 
it!) and got the guys ATM/savings/checking/line of credit/credit cards. Needless 
to say, he had quite a good amount of credit which I used to the fullest 
exstent. This is definantly more benifical, unless you're like 30-40 and can 
take over people who have decent credit, but considerably more dangerous. Since 
not only are you dealing with forged documents, but ones which conterdict the 
ones which they have. STASHING REFERENCE MATERIAL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 
would highly recommend that you keep all of the shit you forward, to refer to 
when needed... But NOT in your house. Use one of the identities, and get a 
safe-deposit box at a bank. Then, put all the info in it, including that 
identity papers. Then just put the key in a safe place... Since one of these 
identities will stay good essencially forever you have no need of worring that 
they discover the box, and it is almost impossible for them to connect it to 
you. Most nice banks even have killer private rooms for you to look over the 
papers, so you don't even need to leave the bank! I personnal keep one, and love 
to go in there and run my fingers though all those wonderful ID's and papers! 
OTHER FILES COMING SOON ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IDENTITY HOPING, FOR FUN & 
PROFIT - Will cover methods of forging ID's PART TWO and the auxilliary 
documents you need. It will also include a directory of mailorder ID companies! 
WHERE TO GET EXOTIC WEAPONS - Update to my origional file, with more NUMBER TWO 
exotic weapons than ever before! THE COMPLETE US ID FRAUD KIT - Around 2 megs of 
high-resolution TIF PART ONE : FORGERY COLLECTION (800dpi/24bit color) scanned 
pictures of all the states drivers licenses and temporary permits. THE BOOK OF 
FRAUD - A compilation of all sorts of scams and rip-offs to pull on unsuspecting 
losers. CBI ACCOUNTS & LOCATION HELPER - Lists alot of the CBI accounts NUMBER 
THREE and their appropriate companies. Also includes a more complete breakdown 
of how to decrypt acnts. ADVANCED IDENTITY HOPING - A addendum (or whatever) to 
the Identity Hoping series. A few new techniques to try and my success with 
them. THE COMPLETE STATE DOCUMENT KIT - Around 4 megs of high-resolution TIF 
PART TWO : FORGERY COLLECTION (800dpi/24bit color) scanned pictures of most 
state letterheads, seals, and insignias. A DEFINANT MUST! Catch these and more 
on the way at any of the BBS's listed below! They will definantly get them 
first... I try not to plan too far in advance, so up until March is all I'll 
list for now. November is kind of a relax month for me, and gives me a chance to 
get some of the above files completed, and start compiling those damn TIF 
pictures! Hopefully it'll be the beginning in a whole new style of text files... 
Then again, maybe not... hehe... CONCLUSION ~~~~~~~~~~ Well, as many people have 
told me, my destiny lies in hell, where, of course I will just take over some 
poor saps identity and then go to heaven (if I hell doesn't turn out to be a 
challenge). And isn't a challenge what we all are out here looking for? Well, I 
hope some of you damn goodie-goodies out there stop talking about doing 
illegalities, and start doing some... Then you'll learn just how much fun it is 
to take things at other peoples expense. hehe, fuck 'em. As usual, I am going to 
laden this with some greetings to all the little people out there that made this 
wonderful, and quite entertaining file possible as fun: The White Rider, 
Grandmaster Ratte, /<ludge, Death Mage, Visionary, Strato-Viper, One Meg Cacher, 
and anyone else who I am in any regular contact with. I also want to take a 
moment to welcome Maximum Overdrive back to society (although for how long... 
hehe). No computer but freedom... If you have any questions, comments, or 
suggestions to make about this file or a suggestion for an upcoming file, then 
please get in touch with me on any of the below systems. I always get a kick out 
of hearing other people's experiences with me files, and telling them about 
other neat little tricks, so get in touch! And always Remember... God helps 
those who help themselves... 
============================================================================= 
Demon Roach [PW: THRASH cDc Board - A Classic - GREAT!] 24 806-794-4362 
Scantronics [Dedicated to telecommunictions since 1987 ] 24 619-423-4852 
Church/Thieves [IBM H/P system running on a Dual Standard ] 192 619-789-2235 The 
Works [Tons of Files cDc Board Give it a call. ] 24 617-861-8976 
============================================================================= 
This concludes another wonderful file by Video Vindicator (C)opyright 1992 
============================================================================= 
