Mormon Instructions on Masturbation 
From a Guide to Mormon Youth 
====================================

          "Guide to Self-Control:  Overcoming Masturbation."

:: Enlist The Power Of Prayer

Pray daily, ask for the gifts of the Spirit, that which will strengthen
you against temptation.

Pray fervently and out loud when the temptations are the strongest.

When the temptation to masturbate is strong, yell "Stop!" to those
thoughts as loudly as you can in your mind. Then recite a portion of the
Bible or sing a hymn.

:: Exercise Vigorously

Follow a program of vigorous daily exercise, which reduce emotional
tension and depression.

Double your physical activity when you feel stress increasing.

:: Set Goals

Set a goal of abstinence. Begin with a day, then a week, month, year.
Finally, commit yourself to never doing it again.

Make a pocket calendar for a month on a small card.  Carry it with you but
show it to no one.

If you masturbate, color that day black.  Your goal will be to have no
black days.

The calendar becomes a strong visual reminder, and should be looked at
when you are tempted to add another black day.

Keep your calendar up until you have at least three clear months.

Set up a reward system.  Each time you reach a goal, award yourself a
quarter. Spend it on something that delights you.

:: Work On Self-Improvement

Work daily on a self-improvement program. Improve your relationships with
your family. Increase your service to your church.

Be outgoing and friendly. Force yourself to be with others and learn to
enjoy working and talking with them.

Change in behavior and attitude is most easily achieved through a changed
self-image.

Spend time every day imagining yourself strong and in control, easily
overcoming tempting situations.

:: Avoid Temptation

When on the toilet or showering, leave the door partly open.

Arise immediately in the mornings.  Don't lie awake in bed -- start each
day with enthusiastic activity.

Avoid people, situations, pictures and reading material that might create
sexual excitement.

:: Use Physical Restraints

Wear pajamas that are difficult to open, yet loose and not binding.

Put on several layers of clothing that would be difficult to remove while
half asleep.

Hold an object -- for example, a Bible -- even in bed at night.

In severe cases, tie a hand to the bed frame.

:: Be Alert To Emotions

Be aware of situations that depress you or that cause you to feel lonely,
bored, frustrated or discouraged.  These emotional states can trigger the
desire to masturbate as a way of escape.

Plan to counter these low periods through reading a book, visiting a
friend, doing something athletic, etc.

Employ aversion therapy.  To cancel out the pleasurableness of
masturbating , associate something very distasteful with the act.  For
example, imagine bathing in a tub of worms and eating some of them.

:: "Wet Dreams" Are Normal

Nocturnal emissions or "wet dreams" empty the seminal vesicles at night
during sleep. The impulses that cause the emptying come from the central
nervous system.

Often an erotic dream is experienced at the same time, and is a part of
this normal process.






X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
