       RETURN TO PIRATE'S ISLE /by Scott Adams - Adventure International/
       ==================================================================

Here is given a full solution to this amazingly hard, tricky, and unfair (in
my opinion) sequel of "Pirate adventure". This game is mainly deterministic,
without important random elements, so it is possible to give exact step by
step solution.

                                 Solution:
                                 ---------

(It is too dark) FEEL AROUND (you feel a mattress - ok, you are in the bed),
GET UP, FEEL ARROUND (you find "something" and got "it"), EXAMINE IT (aha, the
glasses), WEAR GLASSES (much better), LISTEN (a hint), GO BED (notice that you
are in a bottom bunk - so, the top bunk also exists), MOVE MATTRESS, INVENTORY
(you find a booklet), READ BOOKLET (a hint about the glue), DROP BOOKLET, GET
UP, MOVE BED, INVENTORY (you find a diamond ring), GO TOP, GET MASK, GET
WATCH, D, D, GO ENGINE, EXAMINE ENGINE, INVENTORY (you find the screwdriver),
D, U, EXAMINE FAN (it turns), EXAMINE PORTHOLE (nothing special), EXAMINE
CEILING (you find a button), PUSH BUTTON, EXAMINE PORTHOLE (aha, the button
turns on the light; now the timing is extremely important: you need to wait
until the ship batteries become too low for the fan, but not so low that the
recharging is still possible), WAIT, WAIT, WAIT, EXAMINE FAN (stopped; you
find something, but look later what is it), REMOVE BLADE (using the
screwdriver), PRESS BUTTON (end of critical timing zone), INVENTORY (you find
a diamond brooch), GET PAINTING, EXAMINE PAINTING, REMOVE FRAME (using the
screwdriver), DROP FRAME, GET PICTURE, EXAMINE PICTURE (you find a map), READ
MAP (ohoho), EXAMINE PICTURE (another picture is hidden), INVENTORY (Rembrandt
painting), U, GO DOCK, N, DIG (with the blade), INVENTORY (of course, the
rum), DROP BLADE, E, GET ROCKS (tricky), EXAMINE ROCKS (covered in algae),
EXAMINE ALGAE, INVENTORY (you find a piece of Amber), EXAMINE ALGAE (Funori -
do you remember a hint from the booklet), W, GO HILL, JUMP SUMMIT ("jump"
alone is deadly), EXAMINE PIRATE, EXAMINE PIRATE (again), INVENTORY (you find
a box and a gold earring), DROP RUM (essential), WAKE PIRATE, GO CRACK (there
is no light inside, but this is the same crack from the "Pirate Adventure" -
so, there is a shed inside in which is a hammer), GO SHED (be careful in the
dark), GET HAMMER, N, GO CRACK (light again), JUMP LEDGE ("jump" alone is
again deadly), D, S, GO BOAT, D, WEAR MASK (impossible together with glasses -
it is time for one trick), DROP ROCK, DROP ALGAE, MAKE GLUE (from the algae -
a hint from the booklet), EXAMINE GLASSES (lenses and wire rim), REMOVE
LENSES, GLUE LENSES, TO MASK, SPIT MASK (a protection against fogging), WEAR
MASK (the trick is done), U, DROP PAINTING (essential), DROP RIM, DROP
SCREWDRIVER, GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, SWIM WEST, SWIM UP (something is
in the way), LOOK UP, EXAMINE BOAT (something odd), FEEL BOAT (aha, the
opening), SWIM OPENING, GO BOAT, OPEN BOX (with the hammer - you find rare
stamps), DROP HAMMER, DROP BOX, DROP AMBER, DROP WATCH, DROP EARRING, DROP
BROOCH, DROP RING, GO POOL, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, FEEL SILT, INVENTORY (you
find oyster), SWIM EAST, SWIM UP, GO BOAT, GO DOCK, GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM
DOWN, SWIM EAST, SWIM EAST (something is in the way), LOOK EAST (pilings),
EXAMINE PILINGS, INVENTORY (you find a snail), SWIM UP, EXAMINE SNAIL
(Urosalpinx Cinera - a hint, if this means anything to you), OPEN OYSTER, WITH
SNAIL, INVENTORY (you find a pearl), GO DOCK, DROP OYSTER, DROP SNAIL, GET
DOLLAR, EXAMINE BEAM, INVENTORY (you find a diamond pin), D, HOLD BREATH, SWIM
DOWN, SWIM WEST, SWIM UP, GO DOCK, N, E, GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, FEEL
SILT, SWIM UP, INVENTORY (you find doubloons), GO BEACH, W, S, GO BOAT, D, D,
START ENGINE, U, SAIL SHIP (long trip, night feel), PUSH BUTTON (remember that
it turns on the light), D, STOP ENGINE (else you will run out of fuel; now the
timing is very important: if you take too much time, the battery will run
out), U, U, GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, GO SHIP (sunken ship), GET CHEST,
U, SWIM UP, GO BOAT, D, D, START ENGINE, U, SAIL SHIP (return trip), PRESS
BUTTON (end of critical timing zone), U, GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, SWIM
WEST, SWIM OPENING, GO BOAT, OPEN CHEST, INVENTORY (you find a rare book),
READ BOOK (a hint how you can see without the glasses), DROP BOOK, DROP
DOUBLOONS, DROP DOLLAR, DROP PIN, DROP PEARL, DROP CHEST, DROP MAP, DROP MASK
(you need to drop everything to pass through the narrow crawlway), GO
CRAWLWAY, SQUINT (a hint from the book), E, SQUINT (at least, the damned clock
is here lock), GET CLOCK, READ SIGN (the writting says that you need to drop
treasures here, but you can not bring anything here), GET SIGN, W, W, DROP
SIGN (so, the sign "drop treasures here" is moved to the room where the
treasures are already stored - how nasty trick), GET MASK, WEAR MASK (much
better), GO POOL, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, SWIM EAST, SWIM UP, GO BOAT, D, DROP
CLOCK, OPEN PORTHOLE, DROP MASK (again, you must not have anything to pass
through the porthole), GO PORTHOLE, SQUINT, GET RAINCOAT, GO SEA (tricky, but
you can not go back through the porthole with the raincoat), SQUINT (aha, a
known place), GO BOAT, D, GET MASK, WEAR MASK (uhhh), U, GET PAINTING, WRAP
PAINTING, IN RAINCOAT (necessary to bring them through the water without
damaging), GO SEA, HOLD BREATH, SWIM DOWN, SWIM WEST, SWIM OPENING, GO BOAT,
UNWRAP PAINTING, DROP PAINTING, SCORE (finally, the end).

                                  Hints:
                                  ------

- To save the game type SAVE GAME. Typing only SAVE will not be enough.
- Do exactly what is described in the solution. This game is full of false
  traps which can prevent you to finish the game (I will describe some of them
  below).
- Don't try to swim down without holding breath; it is deadly. If you want to
  stay longer under the water, hyperventilate before holding breath (have you
  played Savage Island 2?).
- Don't open the box or the chest before you are in the smugglers hold,
  because there is no way to bring rare stamps or rare book through the water
  without the damage of them.
- Don't forget to drop algae before making a glue, else you would not be able
  to drop the glue, so you later wouldn't be able to pass through the narrow
  crawlway.
- Opening the oyster using the snail must be done somewhere in the water, else
  the snail will die. Also, don't try to open the oyster using the hammer!
- Don't try to enter the sea with the blade, else you will lost it.
- Don't feel the silt in the water under the place where you see "Boat to the
  west", else you will stirred it up, and your mask would become dirty. If
  this happened, then REMOVE MASK, CLEAN MASK, WEAR MASK (of course, not under
  the water).
- Spitting the mask before wearing it is not strictly necessary, but if you
  forget to do so, the mask would become fogged from time to time (you can not
  see through the fogged mask). If this happened, REMOVE MASK, CLEAN MASK,
  WEAR MASK.
- Jumping must be done exactly as described in the solution (alternatively,
  instead of JUMP SUMMIT, JUMP UP or JUMP TOP is acceptable too).
- Every starting the ship engine will recharge the battery, else if the
  battery is completely died (you can type LOOK BATTERY whenever you are on
  the boat to check its state). A playing with this is essential to discover
  how to stop the fan, but it is very easy to make the battery unrechargeable
  if the boat lights are on for a long time, without the engine running.
- If the engine is on for a long time, you can run out of fuel (which is
  deadly). To check fuel condition, type LOOK FUEL whenever you are on the
  boat.

                                 Comment:
                                 --------

Amazingly hard and tricky, in opposite to its prequel "Pirate Adventure", even
hints given by Scott Adams himself (in the hintbook; these hints are available
on the net) are mostly not enough for solving some puzzles. However, it is
written in true Scott Adams style. Sometimes quite unfair, and a previous
knowledge of "Pirate Adventure" is essential. The parser is simple verb-noun
parser. The game is based on the ScottFree interpreter, so this game is
avaliable for nearly all computers (including PC), and a source file of the
game is also fully avaliable.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Game solution by Zeljko Juric

If something is not clear, ask me using E-mail:

zjuric@utic.net.ba

Or, if this address is outdated, search for E-mail at my home page:

http://www.void.demon.nl/warajevo/index.html

