
Ä Area: Sysop hints ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  Msg#: 3                                            Date: TODAY  20:00
  From: Sparky                                       Read: Yes    Replied: No 
    To: New User                                     Mark:                     
  Subj: WHAT IS A .BBS FILE?
ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
        @API$(113) supports a special file named the '.BBS' (dot-BBS)
file.  This file contains information about your system so @API$(113)
can configure itself automatically.  The whole idea behind the .BBS
files is to make it easier for @API$(113) users to connect to your
system.  It takes a small amount of work on your end to make it much
easier on their's.

        Download the file "1STSYSOP.ZIP" from our own customer support
bulletin board system for a complete utility created to help you make
your own .BBS files.

        As sysop, you need to create a .BBS file for your system that
includes the files (at minimum):

                1ST.DIR         A file that contains the dialing
                                  directory entries for your BBS.
                                  Sparkware has a program
                                  available in 1STSYSOP.ZIP on our
                                  support system that will help
                                  you to create this file.

                $$CALL.ASC      This is a file that is displayed to the
                                  @API$(113) user when they call
                                  your BBS.  You can use your
                                  WELCOME screen or create your
                                  own special $$CALL.ASC file.

                $$CALL.ANS      This file works just like $$CALL.ASC
                                  except that it is designed for
                                  systems with color monitors.

                READ.ME         A brief text file describing your BBS.
                                  This file can tell the new user
                                  about special features on your
                                  BBS and give some brief rules
                                  for using the system.  This file
                                  becomes bulletin #999 in the
                                  MAIN CONFERENCE so the user can
                                  always refer back to it.

        These files are ZIP'ed together into a .BBS file.  The name of
the .BBS file must match the filename of the mail packets your
QWK-compatible produces.  For example, a .BBS file for "Sparky's
Machine" would be named 'SPARKY.BBS' because our mail packets are named
SPARKY.QWK.

        If you need to modify the standard $$MAIL.SCR, $$REPLY.SCR
and/or $$CALL.SCR to fit your particular system, make your changes to
these files and include them in the .BBS file too.

        @API$(113) also supports a tutorial mail packet.  This packet is
designed by you and is intended as a detailed guide to your BBS.  The
tutorial should show the user all of the features your system offers.
Also, include some conferences that might interest the new member.
Bulletins, new files, etc.  Include *anything* you wish!

        The best way to create a tutorial mail packet is to create an
account on your system named 'NEW USER'.  Then, log into your BBS as NEW
USER and go into your mail door and download a mail packet.  After
downloading the mail packet you can go back and insert any special files
that you might like to include.  Then, rezip the mail packet and name it
<BBSID>.QTU.  The ".QTU" extension stands for "Qwk TUtorial".  The
<BBSID> is the same name used by your mail door's .QWK files.

        It is important to use 'NEW USER' as the user's name since our
Qmail Door will replace it with the user's actual name.  After you have
created your <BBSID>.QTU file you can include it inside the <BBSID>.BBS
file.  Whenever a @API$(113) user adds YOUR system to their dialing
entry, @API$(113) looks to their file download subdirectory to see if a
.BBS file exists.  If it does then @API$(113) unzips it, loads the
information into the proper areas and displays the READ.ME file
automatically.

        If you have any questions or problems creating a tutorial file
for @API$(113) please call our customer support BBS at (615) 230-8822.
We'll be happy to assist you.

                                                Sparky
-!-
 ş @API$(114) @API$(25) #1bt ş @API$(113) - It's the best!!!
